7.
Northern Italy, April 1945




After Jens had buried the treasure, he headed down the mountain toward the lake shore. Jens was aware that the entire area was swarming with partisans, so if he wanted to survive, he had to make sure he wasn't discovered. He constantly tried to move slowly and quietly and made sure not to walk through clearings where he would be far too visible.
After walking for about an hour, he was well down the mountain and now had to decide where he would flee to.
Jens sat down in hiding in a dense thicket to think and assess how he could escape alive from the situation he was in.
His best chance must be to head south and hope to be captured by American or British troops. It was certainly not without risk, and there were many rumors among the German soldiers that prisoners of war had been shot when they surrendered.
Jens knew that if he was going to surrender to the Allies, he would need to get far enough south that the troops he encountered weren't tired and exhausted from having just been in combat. A pressed unit wouldn't waste energy handling a prisoner of war. He would simply get a bullet in the forehead, and then that problem would be solved.
If he could find a unit that was rested and not about to go into battle, his chances of survival would be good.
He could of course also try to find an SS unit he could join up with so he could continue fighting, but he was done with fighting. He had been fighting since 1941, so it had to be enough now, he thought.
He had participated in so many terrible things that it was a miracle he hadn't gone mad.
Jens had been in many regular battles but had also participated in mistreating the civilian population. Especially the attack on the Soviet Union had been marked by massive atrocities, and Jens had not held back when it came to killings and rapes.
It hurt to think about now, a couple of years later, but at the time they had been in a blood frenzy that made the monstrous things they did seem completely normal—everyone had participated, and no one had spoken up about the horror of what they were doing.
Jens was fortunately not near Soviet troops, but the SS had also done many terrible things in Italy over the past couple of years, so he must not be captured by partisans—that would be certain death.
Originally, he had enlisted because he was a fervent Nazi. He was convinced that Nazism was the ideology that could ensure all Europeans a bright and happy future under the leadership of Adolf Hitler. As he had seen how perverted the entire ideology unfolded during the course of the war, he had lost faith in the cause.
He had considered deserting several times, but there had never been an obvious opportunity where he could have hoped to get away with it.


Jens thought about how strange it was that he was now sitting hiding in a thicket in northern Italy, shortly after burying a treasure of incomprehensible value. Just a few hours ago, he was still part of an SS unit that had orders to fight the enemy to the last man. The unit had gradually become quite small with only two trucks with ten men each and an 88mm gun that was being towed by a third truck.
They had been driving up a small mountain road looking for a good place to set up an ambush when they suddenly heard the screaming sound of attacking fighter planes. It was three American P-51 Mustang fighters attacking them, and shells and machine gun bullets from the planes quickly set the entire convoy on fire. They had no chance to evade or escape, and when the planes had attacked twice, all the soldiers were killed or badly wounded—all except Jens, who had miraculously escaped completely unharmed.
Jens lay for a long time hiding among some large rocks by the roadside, afraid that the planes might come back once more. Finally, he had cautiously risen and had checked whether there was anything he could do for the wounded soldiers, but they were all either dead or close to dying, as far as he could see, and were all unconscious.
The best thing he could do was to get away from the wrecks, which were certainly attracting attention because of the large column of smoke rising from the destroyed vehicles.
Jens took his submachine gun and his helmet and hurried down the mountainside, which fortunately wasn't very steep. Eventually, he came down to a larger road, where he hid in a shallow ditch. He hoped that something would turn up that could save him from the exposed position he was in as a lone soldier in enemy territory.


Jens hid in the ditch for about an hour to recover from the violent experience of the air attack. Just as he was about to get up to continue, he saw a small convoy with a limousine at the front followed by two trucks coming toward him on the road. They weren't Germans, Jens could see, so his first instinct was to hide in the ditch until they had passed, but when he looked more closely, he could see that the driver of the limousine was a German SS soldier.
Jens threw all caution to the wind and jumped out onto the road in front of the convoy, which had to brake hard to avoid running him over. The German jumped out of the limousine, pointed a submachine gun at Jens, and said: "Who are you, and what are you doing here?"
Jens replied: "My name is Jens Raben, and I'm the only survivor from my unit after a fighter attack. I need to find my way back to German forces, but perhaps I can come with you for part of the way."
"We're heading north," said the German, "and that's not the right direction for you, but we could use an extra guard, so if you want, you can ride with us. Get in beside me in the car if you want to come."
The German got back in the car, and Jens hurried to hop into the passenger seat. Now he wasn't alone anymore, and it might not be so bad to be driven in a direction away from the fighting.
When they started driving again, there were a couple of sharp comments from the car's male passenger. The German replied in Italian, and that seemed to have calmed the passengers, who now just looked drowsily out the windows in the sweltering car.
Jens said: "What did you say to him, and who is he, since he has a whole escort with him?"
The German said: "I just told him that we now have one more soldier to look after him. He seems quite pleased with that. It's Mussolini and his mistress we're driving. We're on our way to Switzerland, where he wants to try to catch a plane to Spain. It's probably a last desperate plan, because I don't think we'll be let into Switzerland at all. They don't want to have challenged their neutrality if it can be avoided."
"What will you do then if you're not let into Switzerland?"
"I don't think anyone has thought much about that. He has such a big ego that it hasn't occurred to him that there might be problems at the border. Actually, I don't really care either—I'm not getting into Switzerland under any circumstances. My job is just to drive the car to the border."
They sat for a long time in their own thoughts. Jens thought about how he would continue from the Swiss border. It wasn't so easy to find a solution, but if he rode along all the way, there would be two of them who could help each other onward.
Suddenly the German said: "If you'd like to become rich, I have a proposal for you."
"That sounds exciting," said Jens, somewhat surprised, "but what's it about?"
"In the trunk, there's a chest containing an unimaginable fortune in jewels. It's everything Mussolini has scraped together during all his years as Italy's dictator, now converted into diamonds, emeralds, etc. We need to get our hands on it."
"That's easier said than done. There are two escort vehicles, and they're probably both full of soldiers."
"I've made a plan that should work. In about an hour, we're going to have lunch, and if things go as usual, he'll hang his jacket over the chair and go to the toilet. We need to get hold of the jacket, because Mussolini keeps the keys to the chest in a pocket."
"It's careless to leave the chest in the car and the keys in his jacket. It practically invites theft."
"Yes," said the German and smiled, "but it's his big ego that makes him careless. He doesn't think anything can happen to him. He is Mussolini, after all, the great leader and savior."
"But what about the soldiers from the escort vehicles? I assume they'll stand guard outside the restaurant, and we can't fight them when there are only two of us."
"If you look back, you can see that the escort vehicles are already far behind. This car is much faster than the old trucks. We have at least an hour to the lunch restaurant, and I can easily give us a fifteen-minute head start. That should be plenty of time to steal the keys and the chest and get away."
"Let's try then," said Jens after thinking about it for a moment. "One more crime more or less doesn't make much difference."
"No, you're right about that, and we've probably both got several crimes on our consciences. I was at Marzabotto, so that says it all. But let me introduce myself. My name is Paul Fleischer, and I'm attached to the 16th SS Panzergrenadier Division Reichsführer-SS, just like you, as far as I can see from your uniform."
"Yes," said Jens, "we're in the same division. How did you end up here?"
"I was assigned to Mussolini's staff three months ago, along with twelve other Germans. We were supposed to both protect him and make sure he didn't start conspiring against us. When this final escape was planned, I was chosen to drive the car—none of the others wanted to come; they saw it as a suicide mission, I think. I can hear you're not German—where are you from?"
"I'm from Denmark, and I enlisted in the SS in 1941. I was a convinced Nazi back then. I'm not really anymore."
"Many of us have lost the faith," said Paul, sounding sad and disillusioned.
Jens thought about the massacre at Marzabotto, where several hundred civilians had been killed as revenge for partisan attacks on the German army. A revenge that was completely out of proportion to the number of Germans who had been killed. He hadn't been involved in the crimes himself, but it was one of the atrocities that had made him doubt the righteousness of the cause he was fighting for.


Jens stopped daydreaming. It was apparently his fate to have to manage on his own, it seemed, so he might as well make a decision about how he could best save himself.
It was getting late in the day, so Jens decided to wait in hiding until it got dark. Then he would carefully move south and try to avoid being discovered by either partisans or German troops.
He was hungry and thirsty but had only a little dry bread and a little water in his canteen. He would have to manage with that. There was no way to get supplies, and he had lived on very small rations before during the war. It had actually been quite common for supplies to come in irregular and insufficient quantities to the troops.
Jens ate the bread and drank the water, after which he dozed off a bit in his hiding place in the thicket. When he woke up a couple of hours later, it had gotten almost completely dark, and he carefully began to move down the mountains toward the south.
It was too dangerous to use the small mountain roads, as this was where the partisans set up roadblocks, and in the dark he wouldn't notice a roadblock until it was too late. He therefore had to move through forest and undergrowth while trying to make progress without making noise.
It was a difficult and hard journey he was on. Often he had to make long detours to get through when the undergrowth was too dense or there were steep ravines in the way. When he came to a road, he spent a long time making sure he could cross without being discovered.
However, he still covered a good distance during the night, and when it began to get light, he found a place where he could hide among some large rocks surrounded by bushes and trees.
Jens was exhausted, so he fell asleep the moment he lay down. When he woke up, it was well into the morning, judging by the position of the sun in the sky. He felt rested and ready to continue, but it was far too risky in daylight, so he had to arm himself with patience until evening came again.
After sitting for a while, he thought it might be a good idea to orient himself a bit about where he was. Jens therefore carefully stuck his head up behind the rocks and could now see that he had come a good way down the mountains and tonight just needed to continue the same way.
He had eaten the last bread the first night, so when he set off the second evening, he was very hungry. After a couple of hours of walking, he came across a small house with an animal pen outside. It didn't look like the house was inhabited, and Jens thought he might be lucky enough to find some food in the house. As he got closer, he saw that on the back of the house there was a small addition with a door and a couple of windows. Jens crept over to one of the windows, and when he looked in, he saw in the twilight a row of shelves that appeared to be filled with small cheeses. His stomach screamed with hunger, and he couldn't resist the temptation to open the door and go in to take a couple of the cheeses with him.
Just as he stood taking one of the cheeses, an angry voice in Italian sounded behind him. Jens turned around and saw an elderly man pointing a double-barreled shotgun at him. Jens didn't hesitate for a second but threw the cheese at the man's head and threw himself to the ground. The shot went over him without hitting, and he was lightning-fast on top of the old man, who didn't get a chance to fire the second barrel. Jens hit the old man hard on the throat, and when the man collapsed on the ground, Jens kicked him in the head with tremendous force. Jens now had another life on his conscience.
Adrenaline pumped through Jens's body, and with trembling hands, he dragged the old man inside the cheese room so he wasn't lying fully visible outside.
Jens knew he had to get away from the house quickly because the shot had probably attracted attention. Jens therefore took a couple of the cheeses and hurried away among the trees.
He considered taking the shotgun with him but left it. With only one shot left, it was almost more trouble than it was worth.
When he had walked far enough that he felt safe, he sat down on a rock and thought a bit about what had happened. The killing had happened completely instinctively, without him thinking about his actions.
Jens knew that he was a dangerous man to be around when he could kill without even reflecting on it and furthermore without feeling the slightest remorse. The old man had been in his way, and he had to be eliminated as quickly as possible.
Jens continued his journey south over the next few days. Several times he could hear military columns on the main road, but the couple of times he could catch sight of them, they had been German troops heading north. He wasn't tempted to reveal himself to the German columns—that would just mean he would have to fight again in a war that was long since lost.
________________
