12.
Rome, June 2019


The telephone rang in the dark living room, and the tuxedo-clad middle-aged man answered it as always without saying a word. When he had received the message, he said thank you and hung up.
He then walked down the long hallway and knocked on the office door. Inside the office he delivered the message, bowed, and left the office again.
Russo looked up a number in his address book and dialed. When the phone was answered, he said: "You have news for me?"
A voice said: "Yes, we've made some progress with the investigations. A couple of days ago we broke into the woman's apartment while she was at work, but we didn't find anything other than a number of tourist brochures about Lake Como and Northern Italy. There was actually nothing at all to suggest that she was anything other than a completely ordinary tourist on her way on vacation. As you requested, we've been watching the woman for some time now, but we haven't found out who she's traveling with. Last Sunday she went for a drive with a man her own age, and we decided to break into his apartment this morning. We found the same brochures about Italy and Como, so apparently he's the one going to Italy. We also found something really interesting: an Iron Cross that was lying openly on a shelf, and in a drawer we found a magazine for a Luger P08. Of course, it could be that he's starting a collection of relics from the German army, but there was nothing in the apartment to suggest that otherwise. We could see that he subscribes to a rather intellectual newspaper called Information. Their readers are definitely not the type who collect old war memorabilia."
"Fantastic. That sounds really exciting," said Russo. "Did you also find out who the man is?"
"Yes, he's a high school teacher like the woman, but he's not employed at the same school. We've done a bit of research on him, and he originally comes from a city called Odense. He moved from the city 20 years ago to study in Copenhagen. We found out that his father just died and left him a considerable fortune and apparently also a Porsche 911. That's the car they've been driving around in."
"Has the surveillance of the woman produced anything else?"
"No, unfortunately, but it seems like she has a suspicion that she's being watched. She often looks over her shoulder and seems generally uneasy when she's out in the city."
"Then we'd better leave her alone for a while," said Russo firmly. "We certainly don't want to scare them away from going down to Dongo. Concentrate on the man instead. If they're planning to drive by car down to Italy, we need to find out when they're leaving. I want to know if they meet anyone somewhere along the way, so we need to be able to monitor them for the entire trip."
"We don't have the resources here in Copenhagen to follow them all the way to Italy. It's hard enough for us to maintain even a basic surveillance. We also don't want anyone at the embassy to start wondering what we're actually up to."
"Now, no whining. I'll send two of our best men to Denmark as soon as possible," said Russo firmly. "Then they can help you with the surveillance, and they can be ready to possibly follow them when they leave."
"Good to have more people on the task. We'll also be harder to detect when we can take turns more often watching them."
"That's right, and as I said, we certainly don't want to scare them away from traveling down here."
Russo thought for a moment and then said: "I want a GPS tracker placed on the Porsche. If that's the car they're planning to take to Italy, then we'll have control of them the whole way so we can put surveillance on them. At the same time, we can also keep an eye on what they're doing in the time before they leave. You should also start investigating the man's family going back in time. Maybe we'll be lucky enough that there was either a German soldier or a Dane who fought for the Germans in the family. That would really strengthen our belief that we've got the right ones this time."
The voice said: "I'll take care of the GPS tracker, and I'll get an investigation of the families started. I just don't understand why it's so interesting for us and our cause to check on two Danes who are going on vacation in Italy this summer. There are maybe a hundred thousand other Danes who are also going."
"You shouldn't worry about why we're so interested in them—just do as I ask," said Russo in a sharp voice. "Thank you for your efforts so far. We'll talk later."
Russo hung up and got up from the desk. He walked around the office for a bit and smiled to himself. He had an intoxicating feeling in his body, making him almost feel young again. Finally, there was something to suggest that their long wait would be rewarded. He hardly dared believe that they now had the opportunity to get hold of the fortune that Mussolini had left behind.
They were the rightful heirs to the money. It was they who had kept fascism alive in Italy all these years. It had been a tough struggle, and for many years it was almost taboo to talk about fascism, but in recent decades gentler winds had blown over them.
They had succeeded in infiltrating several right-wing parties and planting fascist ideas. They had even managed to spread the ideas to large parts of the rest of Europe, where they had found fertile ground for fascism among large groups of the poor and uneducated—those with the dirtiest and lowest-paid jobs, jobs that over the last twenty years had largely been moved to China or another overseas country.
They had also had good success with those who felt that the world they knew and loved was disappearing. Those who believed that women should know their place as subject to men's will, that abortion should be banned, and that journalists shouldn't just be allowed to write whatever they wanted, and certainly not criticism of the sitting government or the Christian religion. Those who believed that increased immigration would change Europe in an Islamic direction.
They had now come so far that one could speak admiringly of Mussolini and fascist Italy without being shamed. It was gradually accepted to believe that Mussolini had certainly done many bad things, but he had definitely also done a lot of good. It had been a long and tough process they had been through since the end of World War II, but now things were brightening for them.
The large waves of immigrants that regularly washed over Europe and the many terrorist attacks carried out by Muslims had really pushed many people into the arms of the fascist parties.
If they got hold of the great fortune, they would have the opportunity to further strengthen their influence. They would be able to buy politicians, newspapers, and other media so that fascist ideas would be hammered into the population's heads again and again. Perhaps before long they would even have the opportunity to step forward on the political scene with the pure doctrine without having to hide behind others.
Russo thought about a couple of the causes they needed to push through. They would demand that Italy follow the United Kingdom out of the EU as soon as possible, and they would demand an immediate stop to immigration. All boat refugees should be sent back to Africa and just dropped off on the coast somewhere.


Finally, Russo calmed down and sat down behind the desk again. He would have to wait to dream until later. They hadn't gotten hold of the jewels yet. They didn't even know for certain that the two Danes were planning to retrieve a treasure or whether they were just ordinary tourists.
Russo was, however, so confident in his case that he believed it was now time to call a meeting of the entire circle again. He therefore took four pieces of stationery and wrote a short message on them with a meeting time that same evening. The letters were put in envelopes that were sealed with a wax seal. Neither names nor addresses were written on the outside of the envelopes.
Russo pressed a button on the wall, and shortly afterward there was a gentle knock on the door.
"Come in," said Russo, and the tuxedo-clad man came in and stood waiting in front of the desk.
"Here are four letters that need to be delivered this afternoon," said Russo. "You know who should receive the letters, so leave immediately. You can get Antonio to drive you, so you only need to concentrate on delivering the letters."
A couple of hours later, the five men were again sitting in the meeting room. Russo took the floor and said: "Good that you could all come," Russo began. "I have something very important to tell you, but you've probably already figured that out since I've called you together on such short notice."
There was excited murmuring around the table. Everyone was clearly eager to hear what Russo had to say, because it must be something very important. In all the years until now, the group had only met once a year, and they had always been called to meetings well in advance.
"We may finally be close to getting hold of the treasure," said Russo. "There are a couple of younger Danes who have booked a hotel in Dongo for 14 days here in July. We can't know for certain that they're not just tourists, but in the man's apartment we found an Iron Cross and a magazine for a Luger P08. Both are highly unusual things to have, and it suggests that somewhere in the man's family there was someone who served in the German army during World War II."
One of the men said: "That really does sound exciting. Have we started anything to find out more about whether they're the right ones this time?"
"Just today I requested that wiretaps be installed in both the man's and the woman's apartments," said Russo. "A GPS tracker will be installed in the man's car, and I've made sure that the man's family history is being investigated going back in time. That might provide the explanation for where the Iron Cross and the magazine come from."
A voice said: "Why are we interested in where the man's car is?"
"We're interested because they take short drives in it a couple of times a week," said Russo. "We want to know where they're going and if they might be meeting someone. It could also be that they're planning to drive the car to Italy, and then it's important for us to be able to follow them closely all the way without them discovering us."
One of the men said: "How many men do we have on the task? It's important that we have control of them at all times from now on."
"Right now there are two men in Copenhagen," said Russo, "but I'm sending two more tomorrow. That should be enough for now. When we get closer to July, I'll need a group of young, strong men who aren't afraid to use rough methods. They need to go to Dongo and be ready when the Danes arrive."
A voice said: "I think I know almost all the younger men who follow us faithfully here in Rome. I'll find four or five who are suitable for the task."
"That sounds fine," said Russo, "but remember that the young men will gain insight into our secret. It's extremely important that they are completely loyal and passionate about our cause. Otherwise, the many valuables that the treasure contains can easily be too tempting for a young person."
________________
