13.
Northern Italy, April 1945


The next morning the gates were thrown open, and as the evening before, tables were set up with water, bread, and cheese. When everyone had eaten, they were again ordered into marching formation, and shortly afterward they set off along a road that followed the railway.
When they had walked a couple of kilometers, they came to a large area filled with warehouses, and alongside the railway was an elongated ramp.
Along the ramp stood a locomotive with three cattle cars and a passenger car behind. The German soldiers were divided into three groups and herded into the cattle cars, where the doors were immediately closed and securely locked.
On the floor of the cars, a thick layer of straw had been laid, and a bucket of water and a toilet bucket had been put in for the prisoners. Shortly afterward the locomotive started, and soon they were traveling briskly along.
Jens thought that these were actually fine conditions they were being offered, even though some of the other prisoners were complaining. There were only about twenty men in each car, and there was room to both sit and lie down in the soft straw.
Jens had once seen a transport of Russian prisoners, which also took place in cattle cars of roughly the same size as the one he was now riding in. There the cars had been filled with at least 50 prisoners, and there was neither straw, water, nor a toilet bucket for the journey.
Jens had heard from other SS men about Jewish transports where the cars were so full that there was only room to stand, and where many died along the way simply because they were crushed to death.
Jens went over to the wall where there was a crack he could look out through. The landscape flickered past outside, and it seemed as though they were traveling almost due south.
Jens turned to the large soldier who had ended up in the same car and said: "I wonder where they're sending us? I can see we're heading south."
"Then we're probably on our way to Milan. That's surely where they're gathering the Germans who surrender in this region."
"Then they'll need a large camp. I think most of us have given up the fight."
"I'm sure of that, but it's probably also only a matter of a few days before the war is over."
Jens said: "The last I heard was that Berlin was about to be surrounded by Russian troops, and although the city is large, there's probably a limit to how long they can hold out."
"I just hope it's over soon so we can go home again."
"Where are you actually from?"
The soldier smiled and said: "I'm from Volkmarsen. It's a small town in northern Hesse. I've lived there my whole life until I became a soldier." The soldier looked quite cheered up. It was clear that he was happy at the thought of his hometown.
"Do you have anything to go back to in Volkmarsen?"
"I have all my family and all my friends in town. Both my parents and my two sisters also live in town, so I certainly have a lot to go back to."
Jens couldn't help but think about how different their situations were. He really had nothing to go back to in Denmark, while the soldier would surely be received with open arms by family and friends who would bend over backward to help him get started with life after the war.
Jens asked: "What's the job situation like in town?"
"My father owns the town's butcher shop," said the soldier. "There's definitely work for me there. I'm a trained butcher, and I'm supposed to take over the business when my father wants to stop someday."
Jens couldn't help but tell about his own situation and the dilemma he faced between staying in Germany or going home to Denmark.
The soldier put a hand on Jens's shoulder and said: "We'll probably be put in some kind of prison camp now, but if you, when we're eventually released, decide to stay in Germany, you can come find me in Volkmarsen, and we'll find somewhere you can live and some work for you. You seem like a decent guy, so I'd like to help you, even though I don't know you that well."
Jens said, somewhat surprised by the generous offer: "I might well take you up on that. It certainly sounds more appealing than a prison in Denmark, but then I need to know what your name is so I have a chance of finding you."
"My name is Arno Wittel, but just look for the butcher shop in Volkmarsen and you'll find me."
"Thanks for your offer. Now we'll see how everything develops when the war is over. I wonder when we'll be set free again."
"I don't think we'll be interned for very long once the war is over, and it probably only lasts a couple more days. We'll surely be released so we can go home."
"That's probably how it will be for soldiers from the army, but I don't think it will be so easy for those of us who have been in the SS. As far as I've heard, the Americans regard us as a bunch of political criminals. They'll probably try to find those who have participated in the most bestial atrocities during the war."
"What you're saying is probably right. I've heard some ugly stories from the concentration camps where the Jews and Gypsies were sent. If those stories are true, some people are going to have to answer for what they've done."
Jens said: "I've also heard a lot of rumors about those camps, but fortunately I haven't been a guard there myself. Several of those I've fought with have alternated between being at the front and serving as guards in the concentration camps.
"Some considered it a cushy job to be in the camps, where there was peace and no danger. They may well come to regret that now. They've all been involved in what went on in one way or another, and there will certainly be a reckoning after the war."


When they had been traveling for about an hour, the train slowed down, and they were led onto a siding where they shortly stopped at a ramp where a couple of other trains also filled with German soldiers were standing.
Next to the ramp was a large yellow warehouse that was being filled with prisoners. The warehouse was divided into more than 20 separate sections, each with its own entrance, where column after column marched in through the gates, all of which stood wide open.
There was no plan for where the individual prisoner transports should be housed, so the warehouse was simply filled from end to end.
Inside the warehouse there was a heavy smell of fruit and vegetables that told them the building had until recently served as a collection point for goods from the fertile Po Valley. The floor was concrete, and there was no soft material for the prisoners to sit or lie on. There was no possibility of heating, but fortunately the weather was warm, so the cold was not a problem.
After they had been in the warehouse for a couple of hours, the gate was opened and an American officer came into the hall, took out a paper, and read a short text aloud to the prisoners in a loud and solemn voice. When he was finished, he went out of the hall again and the gate was closed.
Murmuring spread through the hall as everyone tried to find out what it was the officer had read. Only a few knew enough English to understand what the officer had said, and they were pulled and tugged from all sides to provide their translation.
Jens had also gone around the hall to find someone who knew English, and when he had finally pieced together something he thought made sense, he sought out Arno to hear if he had the same understanding.
Jens said: "As far as I can understand, the war is over here in Italy, and we'll be released as soon as they can find transport to take us to Austria."
"That's also what I understood. The first ones are apparently being sent off already today with the trains standing at the ramp."
Jens smiled and said: "That's absolutely fantastic. So we survived the war after all."
"Yes, who would have thought it, but don't you think you should hide your Iron Cross and the SS runes on your collar? Then maybe in the rush you can pass for a soldier from the regular army."
Jens nodded and took off the Iron Cross and put it in his pocket, after which he removed the SS runes. Jens's uniform was now so dirty and ragged that it was almost impossible to see which branch it belonged to.
In the hall where Arno and Jens were located, there were about 300 soldiers, and after they had waited a couple of hours, the gate was again opened and a table was set up at the end of the hall.
A little later, two American officers sat down at the table, and they were now ordered to identify themselves one by one by handing over their soldier's books. All prisoners were ordered to show their left forearm, and Jens was well aware that the Americans were looking for SS men, all of whom had their blood type tattooed on the underside of their arm. So it was clear that SS men could expect different treatment than soldiers from the regular army.
All the soldiers from the army were shown out of the hall, while those who were identified as SS soldiers were herded over to a corner of the hall where they were guarded by armed guards.
Jens gave up in advance trying to cheat his way through, so when it was his turn to identify himself, he handed over his soldier's book and showed his left forearm.
He was immediately shown over to the corner with the other SS men who had been sorted out. Here they stood as if on display and could watch the other prisoners being shown out through the gates. When Arno was on his way out of the hall, he shouted to Jens: "Remember our agreement."
"You can count on it," Jens shouted in reply. It was a bit sad to see his only friend disappear out through the gate to freedom while he himself was held back by heavily armed soldiers.
Finally the hall was emptied of prisoners except for the SS men, who still stood huddled in the corner.


The American officers rose from the table and one of them came over to the SS men, where he briefly told them what would now happen to them. As before, only a few could understand what was being said, and they had to translate as best they could for the others.
The officer had once again said that the war was over in Italy, and the soldiers who belonged to the army would be released immediately and transported to Austria. The SS men would be put in a prisoner of war camp until their circumstances had been examined more closely.
It would be investigated which units they had served with and whether they had participated in any of the war crimes that the Waffen SS had committed during the war. Later in the day, a train would come to transport them to Rimini on the Adriatic coast, where a prison camp was being built that could hold about 3,000 prisoners. Until the train came, they would remain in the hall, where provisions would arrive before long.
Jens thought about how long he would have to stay in the prison camp. He had not participated in guarding the concentration camps nor in any of the massacres of the civilian population that had taken place in Italy.
At the same time, he was not an officer and thus not one of those who had made the decisions about the events that had occurred. That should protect him from being accused of war crimes, he hoped, but it depended on how deeply they dug into his past. The things he had done during the invasion of Russia were best not probed too much.
Jens consoled himself with the fact that there were apparently going to be 3,000 prisoners in the camp who all needed to be investigated. It would be an impossible task to investigate everyone thoroughly. Wouldn't they mainly focus their energy on the officers?
Soon talk began among the prisoners about what they could expect to happen to them.
Many believed that the war would continue, just between the Soviet Union and the Western Allies together with what was left of the German army. The war would now become a battle between communism and Western liberal societies.
It would be a huge opportunity for the Waffen SS to give the Russians a thrashing again. The Allies wouldn't be able to do without the great experience they had in fighting the Russians, and with endless amounts of modern materiel and millions of fresh soldiers, they could easily defeat the Soviet Union. All talk of war crimes would fall silent, and they would be honored for the heroic effort they had made in the fight against communism.
Jens sat there keeping a low profile. He didn't want to reveal that he didn't believe in the many theories about a bright and happy future. As things stood, he was best served by trying to blend into the background and avoid making enemies. There was no telling what they would be subjected to, and he might well need support from the other prisoners in time.
Jens sat leaning against the wall between two other soldiers who also hadn't participated in the discussions, and he sensed that they, like him, believed in nothing other than that they were now going to a prison camp and hopefully would be released without having to spend too many years behind bars.
Jens began a cautious conversation with his two neighbors, where they tried to talk around controversial subjects such as Germany's surrender, war crimes, the civilian population's suffering, and Hitler's incompetence as a military leader. Instead, they talked about where they came from and whether they had family, what they would work with when they were released, and how much they longed for a proper meal.
Suddenly one of the soldiers said: "It's funny how much you look like that guy standing over there by the window. You'd think you were twins. Are you sure your father hasn't been fooling around a bit?"
"Well, I'm from Denmark," Jens said with a smile, "and I don't think he's ever been south of the border. But I can see that he does look a bit like me."
The soldier said while laughing quietly: "He doesn't look a bit like you—he looks very much like you. If he's not your brother, then he's at least your doppelgänger."
________________
