15.
Rome, July 2019




It was late in the afternoon, and the small palazzo lay quiet in the baking sun. The shutters had been closed over the windows to keep the heat out, and all the rooms lay in twilight.
Russo sat in his office with a small lamp lit over the desk. He was impatient to hear news from Copenhagen so he could be certain that things were progressing as they should. He wished he were twenty years younger so he could have taken part in the operation himself. It was frustrating just to sit and wait for information. He regretted that he hadn't demanded a daily briefing at a specific time. Now he could only sit and wait for the men in the field to feel they had the time and inclination to call him.
So far, the wiretapping of the apartments hadn't produced anything concrete they could use. It seemed that the two Danes were mostly together outside their residences. Russo therefore hoped that through other means they had come closer to certainty that these were finally the right treasure hunters on their way.
Finally, Russo could wait no longer and called a number in Denmark. Shortly afterward the phone was answered, and Russo said sharply without introducing himself: "What news do you have for me?"
The voice at the other end hesitated a bit, clearly surprised at being called to account in such a sharp manner.
Finally, he gathered himself and said: "We actually have quite a lot of news. The two Danes left for Dongo yesterday in the Porsche. We've put a GPS tracker on it, so we can follow them at all times. They're being followed by the two you sent up here, so we have complete control of where they're driving and where they stop, so we can see if they meet anyone along the way."
"What about the Danes' family circumstances? Have you checked whether there's anything that can connect them to German military service during the war?"
"We've gotten hold of a good contact at the Danish National Archives who is investigating the cases for us for payment. He has so far investigated the woman's family, and there's nothing pointing to connections to the German military. On the contrary, her grandfather was a well-known resistance fighter who had to go underground in the last months of the war to avoid being executed."
"What about the man's family? Is there anything there?"
"We're not finished investigating the man's family yet, but there's something mysterious in his grandmother's family. Apparently there's a brother who disappeared during the war. He appears in directories and tax lists up to the war, but after that nothing more is registered for him."
"Interesting," said Russo. "When does he disappear from Denmark?"
"It can't be said precisely, but after 1940 there's nothing registered for him, so it's probably around then that he disappeared. Unfortunately, we can't really rely on the Danish archives when it comes to Danes in German military service. A lot of files have been stolen and then sold to collectors."
"What was the brother's name, and how old was he in 1940?"
The voice said: "The brother's name was Jens Raben, and he was 22 in 1940."
"That's the perfect age for a soldier. We must try to see if he isn't registered in the German archives."
"OK, I'll get that started right away. I know several people in Germany who can help us."
"Don't involve a whole bunch of people in the task—it will just end with the wrong people starting to ask the wrong questions. See if you can make do with contacting just one person in Germany."
"I know exactly the right one, so if he has time, I won't need to involve more."
"That's fine. The fewer who know we're active again, the better. When do you think your Danish archivist will be finished with his investigations?"
The voice said: "He should be finished within a couple of days—he himself said that's enough time."
"Let him finish the investigations," said Russo, "and then make sure he has a fatal accident. He already knows too much about what we're doing."
The voice said: "He doesn't know who we are. I certainly didn't give him my real name or who I work for. Besides, I don't even know myself why the two Danes are so interesting."
"Just do as I say," said Russo in a sharp voice. "I don't want a lot of loose ends in this case. If you can't handle it yourselves, I'll send some people from Italy who can."
The voice said soothingly: "Calm down. We'll take care of it—we've done it before. I'll start preparing an accident so we're ready when he delivers the last information."
"Fine, send me a newspaper clipping about the accident when it's done. Otherwise, I'll wait to hear from you when you have news about the missing brother."
"I'll get started right away so we can get things moving. I'll contact you as soon as I know more."
"Do that," said Russo, "and don't keep me waiting too long. The Danes are already on their way."


Russo poured himself a cognac from a decanter that stood on a small cart beside the desk, lit a cigarette, and smiled a bit to himself. He was convinced that the two Danes were on their way to retrieve the treasure.
Actually, it didn't matter whether they found an SS soldier in the family, but it would further strengthen the belief that the Danes were the key they had been looking for all these years—the key that could lead them to the jewels and thus open Italy and later the rest of Europe for the fascist ideology.
Russo considered for a moment whether they shouldn't simply kidnap the Danes on their way to Italy. They had complete control of where they were, and it probably wouldn't be difficult to get them to tell everything they knew.
He quickly gave up the idea, however. There were too many things that could go wrong in a kidnapping operation, and they risked being left completely empty-handed again.
Russo walked back and forth in the office, weighing the pros and cons. Finally, he decided to go to Dongo himself. He couldn't bear being at such a great distance from the most important operation the movement had been involved in since the war.
Russo pressed a button on the wall, and shortly afterward the butler stood in the room.
Russo said: "Get me a room at Hotel Dongo starting the day after tomorrow and book a plane ticket to Milan departing early afternoon. When that's done, please pack a couple of suitcases with the essentials for a week's stay. Also make sure a couple of our people meet me at the airport so they can drive me to Dongo. They should just come in a completely ordinary car. I don't want to attract attention when I arrive at the hotel."
"What do I do if everything is booked?" said the butler. "It is tourist season right now."
Russo wrote a name on a note, which he gave to the butler, and said: "Ask to speak with this person. Then it will work out."
The butler bowed and left the room.
When he was alone again, Russo called around to the relevant people to inform them that he would be present in Dongo for the next week or so. He demanded to be kept closely informed about what happened when the Danes arrived and strongly emphasized that there must be no violence as long as the treasure hadn't been found yet.
On the other hand, they should be prepared to dispose of the Danes once the operation was over. Russo wanted to be sure that the fortune was kept secret so they could use the money to buy as much influence as possible. He didn't want to have to share with the authorities, Mussolini's family, or whoever else might claim the treasure; they could easily come up with purposes to spend the money on themselves.


It was now getting late in the afternoon, and the heat was beginning to subside outside. Russo opened the office windows and pushed back the shutters so he could enjoy the last clear sunshine.
He could feel how the blood seemed to rush faster through his body because of the excitement and anticipation of what would happen in the coming days.
He was glad he had decided to go to Dongo so he could be close to the events. There was so much that could still go wrong if there wasn't a firm hand to guide events. The young ones were all good soldiers, eager to serve the cause, but they were also often hotheads who sometimes had difficulty controlling themselves.


________________
