16.
Northern Italy, May 1945




Jens woke up when the gates were thrown open and a lot of shouting in a commanding tone came in American. He had slept like a stone all night on the hard floor of the hall. Apparently he was more exhausted from the ordeals he had been through recently than he had felt.
Perhaps it was just the relief of finally being safe that made him relax so much that he could sleep without problems on the uncomfortable bed.
It was well into the morning, for the sun was shining from a cloudless sky, and they could feel the heat striking into the hall from outside.
They were now ordered into marching formation again and walked out of the hall over to the railway ramp, where a large locomotive stood with a row of passenger cars behind it.
The column was now, in good order, filled into the cars, where there was room for everyone to get a seat. Jens was lucky enough to get a seat in a first-class compartment with soft padded velour seats. It was the first bit of luxury he had experienced in several years, so he settled himself by the window and looked forward to the train ride.
After the prisoners were placed in the train cars, the train started, and they now traveled through Milan's industrial districts with large gray concrete buildings and later the city's suburbs, which in some places were poor and dilapidated and in other places marked by obvious prosperity with large houses and green well-kept lawns. Finally, they came out onto the Po Valley, where they traveled through a flat and seemingly endless fertile agricultural landscape.
Jens was lucky enough to have ended up in a compartment with the two soldiers he had spoken with the evening before, so conversation quickly got going. Jens now learned that Hitler had died a few days ago in Berlin while fighting heroically against the Russians.
The latter was said with a twinkle in the eye by one of the two soldiers, so Jens could figure out that it was just the usual propaganda at play.
Jens became warm inside at the news of Hitler's death: "So they finally got that stupid pig," was the thought that flew through his head. Actually strange how one can change one's position and attitudes. He had himself gone from feeling almost prostrate admiration for Hitler to hating him with all his heart.
Out in the corridor in front of the compartments, an armed American soldier walked back and forth while keeping an eye on what the prisoners were doing. He didn't seem very attentive, but there was no great danger that the prisoners would try to escape. If they somehow got off the train, they would be in enemy territory and far too far from home to be able to make it through alive.
Jens could hear that the doors to the compartments were being opened one by one, and when the guard came to their compartment, he opened the door and said a few words in American. Jens understood a bit of what was being said, and gradually those in the compartment pieced together that the war was completely over now. All German troops had surrendered, and all fighting had stopped.
Not everyone in the compartment received the news with joy. It was easy to see that for some it was a deep sorrow that Germany had now lost a war for the second time within a few years.
What should have been a crushing revenge, and which from the start had gone so brilliantly, had now become a humiliating defeat with the entire country occupied by foreign troops. Germany was now a country completely at the mercy of foreign powers.
Jens was wise enough not to show his joy that the war was finally over. He just sat by himself and looked out the window as the green fields flew by. There was lively activity in the fields, he could see. Plowing and sowing were going on, and many crops were already in good growth.
Jens was astonished to see both cows, pigs, and sheep in the fields. He had thought they had plundered the country of all its food, but it was clearly the case that the Italians had managed to hide a lot from them.


After traveling for a couple of hours, they came to a larger city where the train stopped at the station. They were now ordered out of the cars and in a column ordered along some tables where they were given food and water.
Jens could see that the city was called Parma from the signs hanging on the platform. He didn't know the city, but everything he could see looked neat and well-maintained. It was clearly a city that had come through the war easily. There were no ruins or houses with bullet holes to be seen. For a moment, Jens could almost imagine that he was just a tourist, but then they were again herded into the train, which shortly afterward left the platform.
They now traveled for another couple of hours through the flat landscape. No one knew where they were heading, but from the position of the sun in the sky, they could see that they were traveling southeast.
Finally, the train stopped, and they were again ordered out of the train. In the square in front of the station, a platoon of British soldiers waited, and they were now lined up in marching formation ready to walk to the camp where they would be interned.
Jens had seen that the city was called Rimini. That meant nothing to him, but now he at least had a name for the place where he would be staying for the next long while.
The station was an elegant chalk-white two-story concrete building with several shops on the ground floor. Long avenues with large green trees led up to the station square, which was filled with bus bays. In the square there was a tall pole on which arrows had been placed pointing in the direction of various hotels. It was clear that Rimini, like Como, had been filled with tourists before the war.
The marching column was now set in motion, and they walked north at a brisk pace. After a short time, the road led them down to the water, where the beach stretched gleaming white as far as the eye could see.
The column continued north for more than an hour until they came to the camp that would be their home for the next long while. The camp was unfathomably large at first glance; tent upon tent stood as far as one could see.
It was clear that the main camp was divided into many smaller camps, each consisting of about a hundred tents plus a couple of wooden buildings, probably intended for kitchen facilities and latrines. The camp was surrounded by high barbed wire fences, and at short intervals watchtowers manned with machine guns were placed.
They could see that the camp was already teeming with prisoners of war, some of whom were apparently busy carrying provisions to the kitchens while others just relaxed in the good weather. The prisoners looked well-fed, and the clothes they wore were for many no longer uniforms but more like civilian clothing.
Jens thought to himself that he should probably settle in well here. There was apparently enough food, and he could even see that many of the prisoners were smoking cigarettes, something he hadn't had in his field rations for a long time. If he could just find something to occupy himself with, the time should pass reasonably quickly.
They were now commanded to halt in front of the main building, in the center of which the main gate into the camp was located.
After they had stood for a while, an English officer came out of the building together with a German SS officer. The English officer's entire appearance clearly bore the mark of long participation in hard fighting. He seemed tired and worn but gathered himself and spoke a few words to them in a clear and distinct voice, after which he gave the floor to the German officer.
The German seemed sharp and well-groomed. His uniform was clean and freshly pressed, and his boots shone so brightly it almost blinded you when you looked at them. Jens could see from the officer's insignia that he held the rank of Standartenführer, which was the rank just below major general.
Jens thought to himself that this German officer had apparently mostly been doing staff duty, at least in the final period of the war.
The officer straightened up and began to speak: "My name is Otto Eiche, and I welcome you here to the Rimini camp, where you will spend the next period of time. How long you will be here, no one knows yet, but as SS men you should expect to be investigated for participation in what they call war crimes.
"There are already some who have been sent north to prisons in southern Germany because they are suspected of having participated in the Malmedy massacre or the shooting of civilians during the invasion of the Soviet Union. Now you have been warned, so you can work on your explanations for when you are interrogated.
"As SS men, we are hated by both the English and the Americans, so you should not expect any sympathy when you are processed. The discovery of the camps where we dealt with Jews, Gypsies, homosexuals, and habitual criminals has meant that we are now seen as pariahs. Under no circumstances should you admit if you have been stationed in the camps—that is the direct road to prison and really tough interrogation.
"You must remember that you are the elite troops of the German army, so I expect you to still maintain disciplined behavior and obey your superiors. If you now think you can behave as you please because the war is over, you are very mistaken. Those who do not continue to behave like soldiers and obey the oath they have taken will be punished harshly and without mercy.
"The camp has room for 10,000 prisoners, of which 3,000 Ukrainians take care of themselves in a special section of the camp. There is also a section for the women who worked as office staff, and I'll say it only once—any contact between you and the female prisoners will be punished.
"In a moment, you will be led into the camp section where you will live. When you have settled in, the one among you with the highest rank should report to me here in the main building. I expect to see him within an hour.
"Once again, welcome."
Jens expected the officer to raise his right arm and say "Heil Hitler," but of course he didn't. Instead, he saluted and then went back into the building.
Jens had never heard of the Malmedy massacre, so he whispered a bit with those standing around him and gradually pieced together that apparently during the Ardennes Offensive a massacre of 80 American soldiers had taken place in Belgium. The massacre had then been named after the town where it happened.
Jens congratulated himself that he hadn't been anywhere near Belgium at any point during the war. He certainly couldn't be accused of that massacre. He also hadn't done camp duty, so he couldn't get into trouble for that either.
It was immediately worse with the things that happened during the invasion of the Soviet Union. If that came to light, he could be in big trouble. He could of course always claim that he had acted under orders, but that probably wouldn't absolve him of responsibility. Jens had to hope that none of the interrogators knew very much about what had gone on back then.
After they had stood for a while, the main gate was opened, and they were now led into the camp. After walking about a kilometer, they came to an area in the camp that was bare land, and they were now told that they themselves should start building the camp. Tents, wood, and tools could be found in a depot building located opposite the main building. They were to ensure there were enough tents for everyone to sleep under protection, and there should be kitchen buildings and latrines that could cover the needs of the 250 men they were.
The English guards and the German interpreter who had followed them into the camp now turned around and walked back toward the gate.
The prisoners stood helplessly and looked around. Who would take the initiative so they could get started with the tasks? They had all been under command for so many years that for most it was completely foreign to have to make their own decisions.
Finally, a middle-aged man stepped into the middle of the crowd and said in a loud voice: "My name is Hermann Peiper, and I hold the rank of Sturmbannführer. If there is no one with a higher rank, I will assume leadership of this unit."
No one else stepped forward, so Peiper continued: "I would like all officers and NCOs on my right side and all enlisted men on my left."
The prisoners now divided up as Peiper had commanded, and Jens, who held the rank of Scharführer, went to Peiper's right side along with about 40 other prisoners. When all the prisoners were distributed, Peiper ordered the enlisted men to gather in the center of the area and then addressed the officers and NCOs: "We need to get the camp functioning as quickly as possible, so we must get to work and put the men to work immediately. I can see that all the tents are twelve-man tents here in the camp, so all NCOs go over to the enlisted men and pick out eleven men whom they will subsequently command. Send two men to get a tent, and go with the rest up to the depot for wood and tools to build latrines and the kitchen building. I also want a building where we can hold school, but we don't need to build that right away. The officers begin measuring out the area and marking it so the tents and buildings will stand perfectly straight. I'm going down to the main building to find Eiche."
Jens now went over to the enlisted men and quickly found the group he would lead for the next while.
________________
