18.
Northern Italy, July 2019


The car moved along the motorway from Milan toward Lake Como. The road was so straight it could have been drawn with a ruler, and almost all the way to Como, the surroundings were marked by the proximity to the large city. One factory after another lay almost as far as the eye could see. It was certainly not the most beautiful region of Italy they were driving through, but it was clear that great values were being created here.
Russo sat in the back seat while the front seats were occupied by the two young men who had picked him up at the airport. The car was, as he had requested, a completely discreet Fiat Tipo—the most common car in Italy.
Russo looked forward to getting settled at the hotel so he could have peace to be updated on how the Danes' journey south was going. He was curious whether they were going to meet someone along the way or whether they would just take the trip like all other tourists. The last he had heard was that they had spent a day in Lübeck, where they had just behaved like everyone else. He could of course have just called from his mobile while they were driving, but he didn't want to involve more people in the fact that something was brewing. The two who were driving him to Dongo should just drop him off in front of the hotel and then drive back to Milan immediately. They were just to carry out their orders and then forget all about the drive.
As they approached Como, they turned off the motorway and drove along the coastal road northward toward Dongo. Since they were now driving on a narrow busy country road, the pace was very slow, and they often had to stop and wait for buses and vans to deliver their loads.
Russo's temper was about to boil over due to the slow pace, but he forced himself to try to enjoy the view of the lake, which they constantly had sight of on the right side. The lake and the surroundings were breathtakingly beautiful in the fine sunny weather. One fine little town after another lay like pearls on a string along the coast, and the hilly low mountains were beautifully green in the light.
Russo thought that it wasn't so strange that foreign tycoons and American movie stars had bought villas by the lake. He couldn't think of a place in the world that was more beautiful than here, but when he and his like-minded came to power, the foreigners would be forced to hand over the deeds to the properties they had bought. It would be the end of anyone other than Italians being able to own houses in Italy. If foreigners wanted to live beautifully, they could find a suitable place in their own country.
In general, a stop should be put to all the strangers who populated the beaches and large cities of Italy. Everyone who was not born in the country or performed a vital piece of work should be thrown out immediately, and it didn't matter whether they had been granted residence permits or not. They would crack down hard with searching for and capturing immigrants, and those who did not leave voluntarily would be placed in prison camps with barbed wire and armed guards.


When they arrived at the hotel in Dongo, Russo opened his own door and retrieved his suitcase from the trunk. It should not look like he was being waited on by the young men. People could think what they wanted, but Russo did not want to appear as an important man, but just as an elderly tourist who wanted to enjoy a little week's vacation in the beautiful surroundings.
The hotel was a four-story building, white with blue-painted shutters, and it was centrally located in the town, right on the road that ran along the lake. The ground floor was a restaurant, and to get to the reception, Russo had to drag his suitcase between the tables.
There was already lively activity in the restaurant, where the tables were occupied by tourists eating their evening meal, even though it was only just after six. For Russo and all other Italians, it was almost unthinkable to go to a restaurant before eight in the evening.
At the reception, Russo was given his key, reserved a table in the restaurant for nine o'clock, and then took the elevator up to the room, which was on the top floor with a view of the lake. Probably the best room in the whole hotel, he was convinced.
He was now about to burst with curiosity to hear news about the Danes, but he took the time to unpack his suitcase and place everything neatly in closets and drawers. Even though he was on an important mission, there was no reason to be sloppy about things. Self-discipline was a very important quality to have, in Russo's opinion.
When everything was in place, he went out on the balcony and lit a cigarette, which he smoked while enjoying the beautiful view of the lake.
Finally, it was time to hear the news, so he went into the room and sat down in an armchair before dialing a number on his mobile. A voice answered immediately: "Hello Russo, I've been waiting for your call. I have a lot of news to tell you."
Russo replied: "I've been traveling all day, so I couldn't call until now. Let me hear the news."
"It turns out that the missing brother enlisted in the SS in 1940 and served throughout the war on the German side. He fought on the Eastern Front for a long period but ended the war in Northern Italy, where he was interned in a prisoner of war camp in Rimini. Late in 1946, he was sent north toward Denmark but disappeared along the way. Since then, no new traces of him have surfaced, and he cannot be found in either Danish or German archives."
"It sounds like we've got the right one here, but I wonder what became of him and how he passed the secret of the treasure on to the family."
"Yes, it's mysterious, but he must necessarily have been alive to pass on the information."
Russo thought for a while and then said: "It's a mystery we'll probably never get an answer to, but the main thing is that we have control of the two Danes' movements. What can you tell me about that?"
The voice said eagerly: "I've received a first report from those following them, and they have a lot to tell. The first part of the trip wasn't so interesting. They were probably just tourists then. They drove from Copenhagen via Odense to Lübeck, where they had a single overnight stay. In Odense they spent about an hour in the man's childhood home before continuing toward Germany."
"What about the next day?"
"Yes, that's immediately more interesting. They drove from Lübeck toward Koblenz, but along the way they made a stop inside a forest. The car stood still for about half an hour."
"Did they meet anyone inside the forest?" Russo almost shouted impatiently.
"We didn't find that out. The forest roads were so narrow that we didn't dare follow them. We could far too easily have been discovered."
Russo struggled to control himself and snarled: "The whole purpose of following them was precisely to discover if they contacted anyone along the way. When they then drive off the motorway for no apparent reason, we don't follow them. Now we don't know if they met someone or who, or if they just felt like having sex in nature."
"I'm sorry about that," said the voice submissively. "I'll make sure to tell the pursuers to be more careful so it doesn't happen again."
Russo walked back and forth in the room while glaring grimly at the phone. If only he had been young himself and could have been one of the pursuers, it would never have happened. Young people these days were weaklings who didn't understand the importance of following an order.
Finally, he lit a cigarette and went out on the balcony, where after composing himself a bit he said: "OK, enough about that. What else do you have for me?"
The voice said: "The first day in Koblenz they were just tourists walking around randomly and looking at the city. The next day is more interesting. It was as if they were looking for something. It was especially the two churches in the city and the street connecting them that they were interested in."
"What is the name of the street they investigated?"
"It's called Florinspfaffengasse."


Russo suppressed a gasp and hurried to end the conversation. He had always had a good feeling about the two Danes, but this was the final proof that they were on their way down for the treasure. Why else would they be interested in a random street in Koblenz if it wasn't to check on Paul Fischer's family?
Excitement surged through him, and he was close to shouting out his joy. Now they were finally at the finish line after waiting patiently for more than 70 years.
Russo had inherited the task from his father, who had been a prominent member of the fascist movement both before, during, and after the war. The belief that they would one day be able to collect a huge fortune had helped them through the difficult times they had had in the first years after the war.
Russo had promised his father, as he lay on his deathbed, that he would find the treasure and restore the fascist party to its former glory. He had often doubted whether he could keep the promise, but now everything suddenly looked bright and easy. They just had to wait for the Danes to dig up the treasure, and that would probably happen in the next few days. It would be like stealing candy from children when they took the treasure from the Danes, who had no combat experience whatsoever, unlike the two party soldiers Russo had ready to assist him.
Russo had decided that they should only have two young men on the task. That way there was a greater chance that the Danes wouldn't discover that they were under observation all the time. The important thing was not to attract attention and then strike at the right moment, when the Danes were alone and the attack wouldn't be discovered by passersby. Of course there was always a risk in carrying out a violent action, but Russo was sure they could easily handle the task.


While Russo was still standing on the balcony, his mobile phone rang and a voice said: "We're just about to drive into Dongo now, so the Danes will arrive in a couple of minutes. If you have a room facing the coastal road, you can see a Porsche with Danish license plates drive up to the hotel in a moment."
Russo replied: "Is there anything to report about the trip from Koblenz today?"
"No, they've just been driving the whole time except for a couple of breaks along the way. They definitely haven't had contact with anyone."
"Good work. You can just continue on. We'll take over from here. See you in Rome."
Russo hung up and lit another cigarette while keeping an eye on the road. Shortly afterward, a Porsche did indeed come and pulled into the parking lot by the hotel.
Russo now saw the two Danes he had been waiting for so long get out of the car and walk toward the hotel with a travel bag each.
The two young fascists Russo had ordered to Dongo were in place and ready to take on the task of surveilling and later attacking the Danes. One had gotten a job as a waiter at the hotel, while the other worked as a street sweeper, where he walked up and down along the coastal road outside the hotel all day.
Russo assessed the Danes to be somewhere in their late thirties. Very Nordic in appearance with fair skin and light hair. Certainly a nice couple who also seemed to be in reasonably good shape. When it came to a confrontation, however, they would in no way be able to stand up to trained violent men like the two he had to help him.


It was now approaching nine o'clock, so Russo changed before dinner. He put on a pair of light well-pressed trousers, a gleaming white shirt, shiny black shoes, and as the finishing touch, a colorful scarf around his neck. For Russo it was completely unthinkable not to change before dinner. Eating good food and drinking good wine was for him both a culinary and an aesthetic experience. Therefore, one should also make an effort to appear as nice and elegant as possible.
When he came down to the restaurant, he was shown to a table with a view over the lake. He skipped the tourist menu that was on offer for €20 for Spaghetti Napoletana, Cotoletta Milanese, and ice cream. His experience was that tourist menus were often sloppily prepared from inferior ingredients. It was often food the restaurants sold to customers who only came once because they were only at the resort for a very short time, and next week new guests would come who could be tempted by the low price.
Instead, he ordered risotto with bone marrow and peas, Bistecca alla Fiorentina, and a selection of cheeses to finish. With this he ordered a good bottle of red wine and now looked forward to a good meal where he could enjoy the view and rejoice over how the future now contained plenty of good promises.
Shortly after Russo had placed his order, he saw the two Danes come into the restaurant. They were shown to a table quite close to Russo's, and since there were very few guests in the restaurant now, it was natural that they greeted each other with a smile and a nod.
Russo thought to himself that it might not be a bad idea if the Danes trusted him and regarded him as a friendly elderly gentleman. He had many times over the years used his charm to ingratiate himself when it was convenient, and he could do it again.


________________
