20.
Germany/Italy 2019


After getting through the morning traffic on the way out of Koblenz, they quickly caught the motorway and now made good progress southward. Even though there was a lot of traffic on the road, they were lucky to avoid traffic jams. The only delays they experienced were a couple of road works near Heidelberg and near Karlsruhe.
By mid-afternoon they were already almost through Switzerland, and as they drove through Lugano, they could begin to glimpse water in the distance.
Malene, who was driving, said: "We're already at Lake Lugano now, so there's only about an hour left until we're in Dongo."
"Yes," said Ole, "it's gone well today. We'll have a couple of hours this afternoon where we can orient ourselves in the town. Then we'll be ready tomorrow to start the search."
"Let's not start too hard. We could begin by driving around the area a bit and taking some short hikes up in the mountains."
"OK, we could also be lucky enough to find the treasure without having to climb too much."
"Yes, let's see. We'll take it easy to begin with, then we won't seem suspicious either."
"That's what we'll do. And there's nothing wrong with just being tourists for a couple of days." Ole smiled and continued: "I actually need to just wander around a bit without having to do a whole lot."
"I wonder if there aren't a few good restaurants in town as well. I feel like I need some really good Italian food and lots of good wine."
"I actually googled restaurants in Dongo before we left, and there are several restaurants that look really good. The hotel's restaurant also gets good reviews."
Malene said dreamily: "Then I think we should eat at the hotel tonight. It will be lovely to sit and enjoy the view over the lake while we eat good food and drink good wine."
"That's a good idea. I'm already looking forward to it."
They now drove along Lake Lugano on a narrow road that ran right along the edge of the shoreline. Occasionally they drove through tunnels and occasionally the road was covered with round roofs that curved upward, but all the way there was a stunning view over the lake, which lay surrounded by low forested mountains.
Ole said enchantedly: "Damn, it's beautiful here. It's like driving around in a postcard."
"Just wait until we get to Lake Como. I've heard it's supposed to be the most beautiful of all the northern Italian lakes."
"Well, I'll have to see it before I believe it, but we'll be there in just a bit, so I can see for myself."
Shortly after they crossed the border into Italy, and after another half hour of driving they reached the shore of Lake Como in the town of Menaggio. The last couple of kilometers down toward the town they drove through one hairpin turn after another, and they both got pressure in their ears due to the large change in elevation they experienced on the way down.
When they had driven through Menaggio, they were led by a rather narrow country road that headed north toward Dongo. There were buildings all the way along the road, and they passed many small hotels, restaurants, and bars. In many places along the water, marinas had been built, all of which were well filled with both sailboats and motorboats. Along the lake there was only very little private housing, and it was clear that life here was based on leisure and tourism. Traffic was in several places led through long tunnels to avoid traffic chaos in the many small towns along the shore.
Ole said as he straightened up in the seat: "Now we're finally where Jens's story takes place. It was along this road that Mussolini's convoy drove toward Dongo. It must have been almost the same sight they saw back then as what we're seeing now."
"Yes, many of the houses look like they're from long before the Second World War, and the mountains haven't changed, of course, so it probably looks much like what they saw back then. The tunnels we've driven through weren't there back then, so they would have had to drive through all the small towns."
Ole said thoughtfully: "That probably wasn't a problem back then either, because there were probably no other cars on the roads there at the end of the war."
"No, they could probably keep up a good pace," said Malene and continued: "I wonder how Jens and Paul managed to steal the treasure from Mussolini. There must have been an escort of soldiers on the trip, and the chest is apparently heavy, so they couldn't just take it under their arm and run off with it."
"I've thought about that a lot too, and I think it could only be done if they stole the car that the treasure was in. That's the only way they could get away fast enough."
"Well, we'll probably never solve that, but the most important thing is that there's still a treasure to go after."
"Both that and whether we're able to find it. That will be exciting too. A lot has probably changed since Jens buried the chest."


They now continued toward Dongo in silence while enjoying the beautiful landscape that unfolded around them. Finally, when they had driven through a long dark tunnel, they emerged into the bright sunlight and could see the town before them. They almost immediately spotted the hotel, which was easy to see with its white walls and dark blue shutters.
Shortly afterward they arrived at the hotel and found a parking space quite close to the entrance. Malene turned off the engine, relaxed in the seat, and sighed: "So we made it this far. It looks nice here. Let's hope we got a good room."
"I've booked a suite with a view over the lake, so it should be fine. It certainly looked nice in the pictures on the website."
When they entered the reception, they were greeted by a smiling middle-aged woman, and after filling out the usual form with name and home address, they were given the key to the room.
As they walked toward the elevator, Malene felt a kind of tingling in her spine, and when she turned around, she saw that the receptionist was staring after them with a sorrowful expression in her eyes. Malene quickly turned back around, but she now had an uncomfortable feeling of danger in her body.
The elevator was free, so they were quickly up at their room. When they entered the room, they saw that reality fully lived up to the pictures from the website. The room was large and equipped with an enormous double bed, sofa and two armchairs, and the balcony door was ajar so they could see out to the small balcony with a table and two chairs.
Ole went out on the balcony and looked out over the lake. "Come, Malene," he said, "you have to see the view. It's really beautiful."
Ole sat down on one of the chairs on the balcony, and Malene came out and took the other. They sat for a while looking out over the lake before Malene said: "Did you notice the expression the receptionist had on her face when we walked toward the elevator?"
"No, what was wrong with it?"
"I thought she looked really sad once we had turned our backs."
"She was so smiling when she served us."
Malene got up and went to take hold of the railing: "But that's exactly what's so strange. When I turned around, she was looking after us with a strange sorrowful expression on her face."
"That sounds strange. Are you sure it's not something you're imagining?"
"I'm completely sure, but it doesn't necessarily have anything to do with us, of course. There can be so many reasons why she's in a bad mood."
"Yes, she's probably just had a bad day. Let's not think more about it. Shall I go down and book a table in the restaurant for tonight?"
"Good idea. I don't feel like running around too much today."
Just then there was a knock on the door, and when Ole opened it, a waiter came into the room with a bottle of ice-cold Spumante and two champagne glasses. The waiter, who was young and looked athletically trained, spoke excellent English, and they understood that the bottle was a welcome gift from the hotel. The waiter now placed the glasses on the small table, opened the bottle, and poured for them. He wished them welcome to the hotel once again, and before he left the room, Ole booked a table in the restaurant for nine o'clock that evening.
Ole took a glass and said: "Well, we'd better toast since it's been poured."
"Yes, let's," replied Malene and took the glass, "and then we can take a little walk in town afterward. It's not that big, so it's probably quickly seen."
They now took the bottle and glasses out on the balcony, where they sat down and enjoyed the view and the fine sunny weather.
"This is pretty nice," said Ole and stretched, "one should always have it like this. Just sitting in the sun and enjoying life with a good glass of wine and a beautiful woman."
Malene looked at Ole with a smile and said: "Don't get too carried away, but I'm glad you think I'm beautiful. It's always nice to hear."
"Then I must remember to say it a bit more often."
"I definitely think you should, but to be a bit practical, I think we should change into some lighter summer clothes. It's quite a bit warmer here than it was in Germany."
"Let's do that and then get out into town afterward. We can drink the rest of the bottle when we get back to the hotel."
A short time later they stood on the street in front of the hotel ready to explore the small town. First they crossed the street and went down to the lakeside, where a row of benches had been set up in a small park with trees and small palm trees.
The benches were all occupied by tourists relaxing in the sun; many of them eating ice cream which could be bought in a small shop across from the park.
Ole said: "I googled the town at home, and as far as I could see, nothing really happens if we follow the country road to the right or left. It's just a road with residential buildings. The only place where there's a bit of life is right here around where the hotel is. If we're going to find something more interesting with restaurants and bars where there might be some life in the evening, I think we need to go up into the town."
"Then let's do that," said Malene while looking at the tourists, "but first of all I could really use an ice cream. What they're sitting there eating looks pretty good."
"OK, let's go over and see what they have to offer."
They now crossed the road and into the ice cream shop, where they both chose an ice cream with two scoops from the rich selection.
They went back to the small park, where they found a free bench in the shade under one of the trees. Malene looked at her ice cream and said: "It's strange that Italians serve ice cream in such a paper cone. The ice cream tastes fantastic, but the cones you get at home are much better."
"Maybe there's a business idea there. You could bring a Danish waffle machine to Italy and open an ice cream stand. It would surely be a big success. I'm quite sure of it."
Malene laughed and said: "Well, if everything else fails, maybe that's an idea."
When they got up to go into town, they spotted a street sweeper coming along pulling his little cart. He was busily occupied with sweeping the sidewalk and looking for litter in the park, so he didn't look up at the people he passed.
It was clear, however, that he was a younger, well-trained and well-groomed man. Malene looked at the street sweeper a bit and said: "It's strange that such a young fit guy has such a lousy job. It's usually older, somewhat decrepit men who have that job."
Ole looked a bit more closely at the young man as they walked past and said: "Yes, it's a bit strange. He doesn't look like there's anything wrong with him, but maybe he couldn't find other work. They apparently still have very high unemployment here in Italy after the financial crisis."
"Yes, that could easily explain it. It's probably just a temporary job he's found."
Ole put on a mock offended expression and said: "Honestly, I think we've talked enough about handsome young Italian men."
Malene patted him a bit and said: "Yes, you'd better watch out, I might fall for the Italian charm. Big brown eyes are always attractive."
"I actually also thought the waiter at the hotel had his eye on you."
"I didn't notice that, but he was quite a handsome guy too, as far as I remember."
They now walked around town for about an hour and quickly got an overview of the small town. There were a number of restaurants and a couple of bars, but they didn't find any real center for nightlife. It was clear that tourism in Dongo was based on middle-aged and older guests who had no desire to spend the night on a dance floor.
As they walked back down toward the hotel, Malene said: "This reminds me of when I went on a bus trip to Italy with my parents once. The travel brochure said quite grandly that the price included a guided city tour. It was just the guide who had been with them the whole trip who took a walk in the city with the guests. That wasn't much."
Ole looked at her a bit surprised and said: "Do you think it's that boring to walk around with me?"
"No, it's not that bad, but I had just hoped there was a bit more life in this town."
"Yes, there isn't. I think we'll have to settle for just relaxing in the evening. It might also be needed once we start trekking around in the mountains all day."
"You're always so sensible, but OK, maybe you're right. Maybe we just need to sit on the balcony and enjoy the view with a good glass of wine."
"And I've seen where there's a wine shop. It looked like they had some really good bottles."


When they got back to the hotel room, they drank the last of the Spumante on the balcony, after which Malene sat out on the balcony with a book, while Ole lay down on the bed to have a little nap until it was time for dinner.
Ole woke up when Malene started the hair dryer. She stood in front of the mirror in the hallway with a bath towel wrapped around her, just out of the shower. When Malene saw that Ole was awake, he was given clear instructions to take a shower and change into something nicer than shorts and a t-shirt. Ole didn't protest and enjoyed the shower after the long day in the car and the walk in the hot sun.
When Ole came out of the shower, Malene had changed into a chalk-white summer dress, had put up her hair, and applied light makeup. Ole looked at her completely astonished and said: "Wow, you look great."
Malene smiled and said: "Thank you. Now see that you get changed so you also look a bit good."
Ole now changed into a pair of long light-colored trousers and a light blue short-sleeved shirt. When he had put on a pair of shiny black polished shoes and combed his hair, Malene looked at him with satisfaction: "Now we can be presentable going down to eat. Italians care a lot about 'la bella figura,' so we'd better make sure that we at least in the evening look nice."
Ole took her hand and they walked together toward the elevator. Ole felt like a true man of the world as he walked there with a beautiful and elegant woman by his side.
They took the elevator down to the restaurant, where they were shown to a table with a view over the lake. The restaurant was only sparsely visited at this time, so it was natural for them to greet with a nod an older elegantly dressed gentleman who sat at a table not far from theirs.
The waiter quickly came with menus along with a carafe of water and a basket of bread. Ole now poured water for them both, and they sat sipping the ice-cold water while studying the menu.
Ole said: "I've actually gotten quite hungry, so for my part we can go for a three-course menu. How about you?"
Malene sat thinking for a moment: "I don't really know if I can eat that much; it was a big ice cream we had this afternoon. But I can just not finish everything."
"Then we'll have three courses. I don't think we should choose the tourist menu. It can be some dreadful slop, so let's see what else they have to offer."
They sat browsing through the menu, each trying to find something they might like.
Suddenly the older gentleman cleared his throat and said in English with only a slight accent: "If you're in doubt about what to choose and like beef, I can recommend the Bistecca alla Fiorentina. Here in Italy it's always the best and most tender meat that's used for this dish."
Ole was immediately interested in the good advice, and after a bit more browsing through the menu, it ended with them both ordering mussels in white wine as a starter and cheese to finish. Ole would then have the steak for the main course, while Malene would settle for just the two courses. Ole also ordered two glasses of white wine for the starters and a good bottle of red wine for the rest of the meal.
They chatted a bit with the older gentleman, who told them his name was Russo and that he was on a week's vacation at the hotel before he had to return to his company in Rome. He just needed to relax and wasn't going to do anything other than walk around the town a bit and otherwise just enjoy some good food and drink. Malene and Ole told him they had booked a room at the hotel because they had plans to go hiking in the mountains around the lake.
They both now sat and relaxed before the food, while enjoying the view over the lake, which was bathed in an orange glow from the setting sun.
After they had sat for a while, Ole said thoughtfully: "It's actually a shame that the hotel isn't right down by the lake. It spoils the view a bit that we have to look at the road all the time. It's not that pretty to look at cars, trucks, and scooters."
Malene laughed and said: "No, you're right about that, but it's probably not easy to change once the road has been built."
Ole smiled and said: "No, I'm well aware of that, you goose. I just remember once when I was on vacation in Greece. We stayed in a town called Tolo, and there many of the hotels and restaurants were built right down to the water. It was almost like eating with your feet in the water."
"I've experienced that in Greece too, and the difference is probably that Dongo is an old town, while the Greek tourist towns are quite new and designed to satisfy tourists' wishes as much as possible."
Their mussels were now served and they both ate with good appetite. When they were almost done with the mussels, Malene said with a satisfied sigh: "It's been a long time since I've had such good mussels. They seem completely fresh, and there's quite a distance from here to the sea."
Ole thought for a moment: "I think it's about 250 kilometers to Genoa, so a truck can be here in a couple of hours with fresh supplies from the Mediterranean. They can easily have completely fresh fish every day."


They ate the rest of their meal while chatting about this and that. For a while they felt like just tourists and not travelers with a mission to accomplish before they could return home.
The older gentleman at the neighboring table was now finished with his dinner and had sat down at a small table outside the restaurant, where he was smoking a cigarette while drinking an espresso.
Malene glanced outside and said: "He's quite a charming older gentleman, I must say."
"Yes, he knew how to make conversation."
"I wonder what line of business his company is in."
Ole drank some wine and ate some cheese before saying: "He's very well-dressed, so it might have something to do with fashion. Who knows?"
"Yes, we could have just asked him, but we'll probably see him again, so we can find out."
"What shall we do tomorrow?"
"We've agreed that for the first couple of days we'll just drive around a bit and look at the area. I think we should stick to that. We can take a couple of short hikes in the mountains, then it also looks a bit more innocent."
Ole nodded and said: "OK, then that's what we'll do. Tomorrow we'll just let chance decide, and see where it takes us."
When they had eaten, they went up to the room, where they went to bed right away. They were both tired after a long day and quickly fell asleep.


The next morning Malene woke before Ole. "It's the usual," she thought with a smile. "He's quite a sleepyhead." She now took a shower and then dressed in some light summer clothes so she was ready for their excursion in the summer heat.
After she had woken Ole, she went out on the balcony to once again enjoy the view over the lake. The sun shone from a cloudless sky and the lake lay blue and almost mirror-smooth before her. There were already several pleasure sailors out on the water, and a single tour boat came sailing to dock at a small pier below the hotel.
Malene smiled to herself at the beautiful and peaceful sight and looked forward to going out on their own excursion in the area. She now looked down at the small park in front of the hotel, where she spotted Russo coming strolling along by the water; still elegantly dressed in light summer clothes and a Panama hat. The street sweeper, whom Malene and Ole had seen the day before, was busy tidying up the park, and when Russo came close to him, they began to talk. Malene could see that the conversation gradually became more and more animated, and both Russo and the street sweeper gestured eagerly.
Finally, it seemed as though Russo became angry and scolded. He pointed threateningly at his counterpart before walking away with quick steps. When he had walked a bit, he looked up and when he spotted Malene, it seemed to startle him. He quickly composed himself, however, and greeted her by quickly tipping his hat.
The street sweeper stood with bowed head and almost looked like a beaten dog. It was clear that he was shaken by the confrontation with Russo. When he looked up, he spotted Malene on the balcony and looked at her with an almost hateful expression on his face. The evil eyes made a cold shiver run down Malene's spine, and she hurried back into the room.
When Ole came out of the shower a little later, Malene excitedly told him what she had experienced.
Ole stood thinking for a moment and then said: "It doesn't necessarily have anything to do with us. Maybe they just got into an argument about something, and then the street sweeper was naturally in a bad mood when he spotted you."
Malene looked at him angrily and snapped: "You should have experienced it yourself, then you'd also know that there was something completely wrong about it. Why would Russo also be startled when he spotted me? That seems strange."
"OK, take it easy now. I believe what you're saying, but we don't know what happened before you came out on the balcony. Let's go down and get some breakfast so we can get going on our trip."
"OK, let's do that, but I'm starting to think this whole thing is a bit strange. The receptionist also looked at us strangely yesterday, and surely I'm not imagining all of this."
Ole raised his arms as if in surrender and said: "No, no, but calm down now. We'll just have to try to keep an eye out for whether more mysterious things happen."
They packed a bag with some change of clothes and sunscreen and then went down to the reception, where they handed in the room key, after which they went into the restaurant for a quick meal before continuing on. Breakfast was clearly not designed for tourists from the north. It was typically Italian, with a bit of bread, jam and cheese, and coffee with milk. Malene and Ole quickly ate a couple of pieces of bread and drank a large cup of coffee each before going out to the car.
"Where shall we drive today? Have you made a plan?" said Malene when they stood by the car.
"I haven't made a real plan, but I've thought we could drive north and then seek a bit up into the mountains. There are many small villages we can check out."
"OK, then that's what we'll do. I'd like to drive, if that's OK."
"Fine with me, then I can enjoy the landscape while you drive."
Malene smiled and said: "And I can get to drive fast up the winding mountain roads."
"Easy does it. We'd like to get through this in one piece."
"We will, I just need to try out a bit of what it can do if it's pushed."


They followed the country road north out of town, passing a series of small villages that lay close together like pearls on a string. It was clear that many of the houses were small and also often poorly maintained. The tourist character had completely disappeared here a couple of kilometers from the lakeside.
When they came to a village called San Gregorio, they turned left and followed the signs toward Peglio. The road now became narrow and went steeply upward in hairpin turns.
"This is actually when I should try to play a bit with the car," said Malene, "but I think the road is just a bit too narrow here, and I can't see what's coming from the opposite direction."
"It suits me fine that we just drive nice and easy, but there will surely be other opportunities to drive fast. The next few days we're just driving around looking at the mountains."
After passing yet another series of small villages, they arrived at Peglio, where they drove up to a very small square centrally located in the middle of the village. They got out of the car and now stood for a long time looking out over the lake, which stretched for miles deep below them.
Malene took off her sunglasses and said: "What a view those who live here every day must have."
"Yes, it's damn beautiful, but I wonder if they even see it. They're probably so used to the sight that they don't even notice it."
"They probably enjoy it now and then, when they just remember how lucky they are to live here."
Ole now turned around and looked at the houses that lined the road. They were all three stories, where the lowest was used as a garage, shop, or workshop. He turned to Malene and said: "The houses almost look like they're in Switzerland, with the low roof pitch and the large balconies. They just look a bit more run-down."
Malene turned around and looked at the houses: "We are quite close to Switzerland here. We just have to go over the next couple of mountain peaks and we're no longer in Italy."
"It's actually strange that there isn't a bar, a kiosk, or a small restaurant here in the square. There's only a bus shelter, and as far as I've seen, there's nowhere else in town where you can leave the car."
"There probably aren't many tourists who find their way all the way up here. I could actually use something cold to drink." Malene walked toward the car and continued: "Let's drive on a bit. There must be a place where the locals can buy groceries."
When they had driven a short distance, they came to a sign pointing toward "Alimentari," and when they turned off, they shortly afterward came to another small square with a very small supermarket.
"What did I say," said Malene triumphantly, "they have to have a place where they can shop. Otherwise it would be hard to live all the way up here."
"Let's go in and see if they have something cold we can buy. Maybe we can also find something we can have for lunch. I'm getting a bit hungry by now."
Even though the shop was quite small, there was a nice selection of cold sodas, bread, and various cold cuts like ham, salami, and cheese. They now stocked up on what they wanted, after which they sat on a bench in the shade and ate their food.
After lunch they continued driving around in the mountains, and at one point they found a place where they could park the car so they could hike for about an hour on the narrow paths that ran through the dense vegetation. Neither of them had brought hiking boots on the trip, but the paths were dry and firm to walk on, so sandals worked fine.
It was now getting to be late afternoon, so they decided to head back toward the hotel.
Ole now took the wheel and drove down through the hairpin turns. Like Malene, he had to suppress an urge to give a bit of extra gas through the sharp turns. It was easy to feel that the car in skilled hands would be able to drive down at a furious pace.
Ole remembered what he had learned about not overheating the brakes, so he used the gears to brake the speed as much as possible. Finally they came out on the country road again, and now they made good progress home toward the hotel.
When they arrived at the hotel, they went into the restaurant and ordered a draft beer, which they took over to the small park by the water surrounded by tourists, elderly people, and playing children.
After they had sat for a while, Malene said: "Where shall we eat tonight?"
Ole took out his mobile phone and looked up Tripadvisor to find a good restaurant. After some searching, he said: "It seems like the best restaurant in town is right behind the square here next door. We could try that tonight."
"That sounds like a good idea. Book a table for eight o'clock. I think nine is a bit too late to eat. I was absolutely starving last night when we finally got food."
"I'll do that, but I'll have to go there and book. You can't book a table on their website."
"OK, then I'll take the glasses over to the restaurant if you go and book a table."
They now went their separate ways, and Ole went to the town's central square to find the restaurant. The square contained several restaurants, the town hall, a souvenir shop, a bicycle rental, and a memorial to the fallen from both world wars.
Ole quickly crossed the square and found the restaurant, where he was lucky enough to get a table for the same evening. As he walked back to the hotel, he spotted the young street sweeper and the waiter from the hotel standing deep in conversation in a doorway a bit further up the street. When they spotted him, the street sweeper eagerly started tending to the street while the waiter hurried on up the street.
Ole now walked slowly back toward the hotel while pondering what he had just seen. It didn't necessarily mean anything. It was probably quite natural that two young men, who perhaps were even both from the town, exchanged a few words, but combined with what Malene had experienced, a pattern was gradually forming that was probably worth thinking about.
Ole was aware that if he told Malene about what he had seen, she would certainly demand that they abandon the treasure hunt and return home immediately.
He definitely didn't want that, so Ole decided to be extra watchful over the next few days but not say anything.
Ole had a bit of a guilty conscience, because he had actually promised Malene that they would abandon the treasure hunt if it became dangerous in any way. He consoled himself, however, that what they had each observed could just be coincidences that probably didn't mean they were in danger.
When Ole got back to the hotel, Malene was lying on the bed as God had made her with a towel around her hair, obviously just out of the shower. Ole quickly took off his clothes and his enthusiasm for the sight of the naked Malene was evident.
Before he got into bed, Malene said with an affected firm voice: "You go take a shower first before you come to me. I can easily see what you're after, but that won't happen until you've washed. You've been sweating all day in the heat."
After Ole had showered, they made love gently, and when they were both satisfied, they fell asleep while holding each other.
When they woke up, there were still a couple of hours until they were to eat, so they sat down with a large map and began to plan which trips they should take over the next few days. They agreed that they would see how high they could get with the car, after which they would hike for a couple of hours in the mountains. They found various routes that looked interesting and that seemed to lead far up into the heights. When they had been hiking tourists for a couple of days, they would go to Garzeno and see if they could spot the stone house that Jens had written about.


________________

