21.
Italy 2019


Russo woke early as always and spent the first hour on a chair on the balcony, where he enjoyed the fresh morning breeze coming in from the lake. He had always enjoyed mornings the most and throughout his adult life had made sure to have at least an hour of peace and quiet just with himself.
While he smoked a couple of cigarettes, he sat thinking about what he needed to have in place over the next few days for their mission to succeed.
There was no longer any doubt that the Danes had come to retrieve the treasure. Now it was just a matter of timing their intervention perfectly so they wouldn't scare the Danes away while also making sure not to attract attention.
He had already given the street sweeper orders a couple of days ago to find a place where they could bring the treasure once they had gotten hold of it. They couldn't just take it into the hotel without running too great a risk.
They also needed to find a way to dispose of the Danes' bodies. Russo had decided that they had to make sure to hide the bodies so well that they would never be found again. Then it would just be another one of those mysterious deaths that sometimes befell mountain hikers, where they simply disappeared never to be found.
After a period of searches, the case would be filed as unsolved, and everyone would think that a serious accident had befallen them. They could, for example, have fallen into a ravine and either died on the spot or been so badly injured that they had no chance of climbing out again.
Russo had considered various options and had concluded that the safest thing would probably be if the Danes were dumped out in the middle of the Atlantic Ocean. There they would certainly disappear forever. Russo fortunately had connections to several Italian shipping companies, so it could easily be arranged. He would ask the young waiter to arrange discreet transport to Genoa, where ships constantly departed heading for America.
All in all, Russo was quite satisfied with the way things had developed. If they just played their cards right over the next few days, the treasure would certainly fall into their hands.
He briefly considered whether he should call for reinforcements. It was perhaps too few after all, with only him and the two young helpers. However, he quickly agreed with himself that as long as the Danes didn't suspect anything, they should be able to handle the task easily.


It was now getting close to breakfast time, and Russo got up from the chair and went back into the room. He glanced at a small table where the GPS tracker was charging. It was set to make a sound when the car was moved and then show on a map what route it took. Russo hadn't seen it in action yet. He had just received it from the team that had followed the Danes, but he was eager to see how well the tracking worked.
Russo had decided that they shouldn't follow the Danes when they went on excursions along the lake or up into the mountains. The roads were far too narrow for surveillance to be carried out without there being a great risk that they would be discovered.
If the Danes started visiting the same place several days in a row, it would certainly be a sign that they were in the process of searching for the treasure, and the waiter and street sweeper should then follow and find out what was going on.
When the Danes at some point started moving the treasure, they should strike, kill the Danes, and take over the treasure. Then there were just some practical matters to be resolved, the case would be solved, and Russo could return to Rome and start working on the big plans he had for the fascist party's future.
The only thing Russo was a bit nervous about was whether the Danes had allied themselves with others who were operating in secret. It could after all upset all his plans if an unknown group suddenly struck and changed the whole game.
Russo was quite sure, however, that the Danes were operating alone. They were clearly amateurs when it came to handling dangerous situations, and in fact they didn't even know that they were heading into something that would become really unpleasant for them.


When Russo came down to the restaurant, he was completely alone, so he chose his usual table by the windows looking out over the lake. He ordered a large cup of coffee with milk, and from the small buffet he took a piece of bread which he spread with orange marmalade. That was more than enough for breakfast. Most days he just had a cup of coffee and a cigarette before starting the day's tasks.
Russo was glad to have the restaurant to himself. That way he didn't have to deal with other people's chatter and laughter and could just sit and fantasize a bit about the future that now awaited him.
When he had eaten his breakfast, he asked for another cup of coffee, which he took outside the restaurant, where he sat at a small table and lit a cigarette.
After he had sat for a while, he spotted the street sweeper, who came pulling his cart while picking up the rubbish that had accumulated on the road and sidewalk during the evening and night. He glanced over at Russo and, as agreed, didn't let on that he knew him.
When the street sweeper started working on the small park across from the hotel, Russo went over to exchange a few words with him.
Russo said: "Have you observed anything unusual since yesterday?"
The street sweeper leaned on his broom and replied: "No, everything has been quiet. There's been some turnover in tourists as usual, but otherwise nothing has happened."
"Good, just keep a sharp eye on everything that goes on. It's especially important that you watch for anything unusual near the Danes. If the same people come driving or walking past the hotel several times, you should see if you can find out who they are and where they're staying."
Russo looked at the street sweeper with a firm expression and continued: "It's important that you do as I say. We're the ones who should control what happens and when it happens. I don't want to be surprised by anyone we haven't spotted. That could ruin everything."
The street sweeper looked away. Clearly uncomfortable with Russo's sharp tone. He said: "I'm already doing my best, and you can be quite sure that there hasn't been anything unusual in the last day."
"Good. I trust that then. How is it going with finding a place where we can stay discreetly?"
"I haven't really had time to do anything about that yet. There's been so much else I've had to take care of, and I've only been here for a couple of days."
Russo now turned completely red in the face with anger. He pointed at the street sweeper and hissed: "Excuses, excuses. You're good at that, but you can't manage to solve a simple task because your head is full of nonsense and trivial things. Now get it done. Tomorrow morning we'll meet again, and I expect you to have found a place where we can stay. I don't want to hear any more excuses."
Russo now turned and began to walk along by the water. As he glanced at the hotel, he saw the young Danish woman standing on her balcony looking down at them. Involuntarily he started, but he quickly composed himself and greeted her by tipping his hat.
He now continued at a calm pace and looked completely relaxed, while inside he was seething with rage and annoyance. If only the damned street sweeper had done his job properly, he wouldn't have gotten worked up, and he could have greeted the woman quite naturally. Now he was afraid that he had set some thoughts in motion with the Danes, and that was precisely what he wanted to avoid. It was probably wise to turn up the charm even more when he met the Danes next time.
Russo now walked at a calm pace along by the water while his temper gradually subsided and he could begin to think clearly again. The most important task today was to keep an eye on the GPS tracker if the Danes went on a trip. He looked forward to seeing how the modern electronics worked. It was almost like shadowing someone without leaving your chair. The Danes couldn't do anything with the car without Russo knowing exactly where they were.
If only they could somehow have placed a GPS device on the Danes themselves, it would have been perfect. But he had been told that couldn't be done, and he had reluctantly accepted that.
When he had walked for about half an hour, he turned around and began to walk back. As he approached the hotel, the Porsche came driving past heading north, and he hurried home to the hotel room, where the GPS tracker was blinking to indicate that the car had moved.
When Russo looked at the tracker's screen, he could see a small red dot that was slowly moving on the map that the screen displayed. Everything seemed to be working perfectly.
Suddenly Russo's mobile beeped to indicate that he had received an email. The email contained a picture of a newspaper article that clearly dealt with a car accident, which was evident from a picture showing a car crumpled around a roadside tree. Russo didn't need any further explanation to see that it was the Danish archivist who had had an accident.
Russo was pleased that things were now starting to work out as they should again. The surveillance was working perfectly, and the loose end from Denmark had been cleared away. He had considered whether there were more of those involved who should suffer the same fate as the Danish archivist, but apart from the two young men who were with him in Dongo, no more cleanup should be necessary.
The young men would both be removed when their tasks of obtaining the treasure were completed. It was of course a wretched way to reward them for their efforts, but they knew far too much to be allowed to live. If what was going to happen in Dongo in the next few days became public knowledge, it would cause irreparable damage to the fascist movement, and Russo would not take that risk.


Russo spent the next couple of hours reading a book and keeping an eye on the GPS screen. When lunchtime came, he asked reception to have a sandwich and a mineral water delivered to the room. When the young waiter came with the food, Russo instructed him to arrange the transport to Genoa. It should just be a van with two coffins in it that could be ready to go whenever they needed it.
Russo made it clear that he expected the task to be completed without hesitation and before evening. The waiter bowed submissively and hurried out of the room again, clearly frightened by Russo's sharp tone.


________________

