23.
Italy 2019


Malene and Ole now spent a couple of days driving and hiking in the mountains around Dongo. They found one breathtaking view after another while feeling completely alone in the world. When they got high enough, there were no other tourists but themselves, and only when they drove back down from the mountains in the late afternoon did they encounter other people.
They drove as high as they could in the car, after which they walked for a few hours while following the animal trails that appeared in the landscape. The mountains weren't tremendously high, but occasionally they got high enough that the trees disappeared and they could really enjoy the view.
At one point when they were right at the top of a mountain, they came across a small church that lay completely isolated without any other houses nearby and without a road leading up to it.
Malene said: "What a strange place to put a church, no one lives all the way up here."
"No, we certainly haven't seen anyone," said Ole as he opened a gate in a metal fence that surrounded a small covered area in front of the church door. Ole continued: "I wonder if the church was intended for the shepherds who were here in the old days. Then they had a place where they could pray."
They now went inside the small church room, which was simply furnished with a couple of rows of pews and an altar, above which hung a small wooden crucifix.
They both sat down without saying more. It was as if the simple room and the complete silence surrounding them somehow called for calm and contemplation.
Here there was nothing external to disturb them, and they both sat completely still for a few minutes, just feeling their heartbeats and breathing while emptying their heads of all thoughts.
Finally they got up and quietly walked out of the church again, making sure not to make unnecessary noise.
Malene said: "That was a lovely experience. It almost makes you feel religious."
"Yes, it's strange that the small room could have such a big effect. Maybe it's because the room is so small and completely without decoration. I wonder if it's still in use."
"It looks like it. Everything is neat and well-maintained. Maybe it's intended for tourists like us."
"Yes, that could well be. It's certainly not located where people just drop by for Sunday service."
The church was situated by a steep cliff edged by a railing, where Malene and Ole went to enjoy the view down toward the lake.
Ole pointed and said: "You can see Dongo so clearly from here. I even think I can see our hotel."
"Yes, it's fantastically beautiful," said Malene while looking down toward the town. "That's probably why they chose to build the church here, even though it must have been terrible work to get all the building materials all the way up here."
"Yes, that must have required a hell of a lot of trips with donkeys or whatever they used for hauling."
They now sat down in the grass and took out their lunch. The hotel had recommended a delicatessen that made really good sandwiches. There was both the option to order from the shop's recipes or put something together yourself from what you liked best.
They ate with good appetite while enjoying the good bread and the fresh, well-prepared ingredients. When they were finished, Malene said: "If you made sandwiches of the same quality in Denmark, people would line up far down the street to buy."
"It might be possible to find a market for it in Copenhagen, but otherwise I don't think Danes are willing to pay what this quality costs. We're incredibly stingy when it comes to spending money on food."
"Yes, that's true," said Malene thoughtfully, "but it's a shame, when food of really good quality tastes so fantastically good. The Italians know how to live life."
"They certainly care much more about food than we do. For many Danes, food is really just something they have to eat to avoid starving to death."
"Easy now, it almost sounds like you're riding one of your hobby horses. Most people can appreciate food that tastes good and is properly made. It's probably just as much about being able to find the time every day to care about food."
Ole thought for a moment and then said: "OK, you're probably right. I just feel like I've often experienced that the ingredients you can buy down south are far better than what we have at home."
After sitting for a while enjoying the view and the good weather, they packed up their things and put on their backpacks before continuing their hike in the mountains.


After spending a couple of days as tourists in the mountains, on the third evening they sat and talked about how they should approach the treasure hunt. After they had turned over various possibilities, they agreed to simply follow Jens Raben's instructions.
Malene said: "I think we should just leave early tomorrow morning as usual, and then we'll drive to Garzeno and stop at the square. We'll just walk around and look like all other tourists. Then we'll see if we can spot the house that Jens mentions."
"Yes, that could be difficult. A lot of years have passed since Jens stood in the square and looked east."
"Well, let's try anyway, and see if we're lucky. There can't be that many houses in the mountains either."
Ole looked at Malene with concern: "That's actually what I'm most nervous about. If a lot of houses have been built in the mountains after the war, we'll never find the right one."
"Well, let's not borrow trouble." Malene put her hand on Ole's arm: "We can wait to worry until we see what it looks like up there. Maybe it's just straightforward."
"That's true, and if we don't find the treasure, it's not a big catastrophe. It would just be exciting if we succeed."
Malene straightened up in her chair and looked firmly at Ole: "I'd say that if we find the treasure, it's quite a bit more than just exciting. I'd be very, very pleased if I could lay my clammy hands on a few million, and I certainly have many ideas about what to use them for."
"Yes, I feel that way too. It's always nice to have money, but I just mean that neither of us lacks money in that way. We both have steady, secure jobs with reasonable wages."
"You're right that we won't starve or anything even if we don't find the treasure. It would just create so many possibilities if you really had a lot of money."
Ole smiled and looked lovingly at Malene: "What would you like to spend money on then?"
Malene thought for a moment and said: "I'd like to be able to afford a big house in the countryside near Copenhagen and a summer house by the North Sea. You've seen how much I like fast cars, and I'd also like to own, for example, a brand new Porsche or another supercar." Malene smiled and continued: "As you can see, I could quickly burn through a few million."
They now sat for a while in their own thoughts before Malene said: "Haven't you thought at all about what you'd spend the money on if we get the treasure?"
"Well, yes I have, but I think I'm a bit like many of those who win the big prize in the lottery. They don't know what to spend the money on either, so they just buy a small Ford Ka and put the rest of the money in the bank. Especially after I inherited from my father, I don't really need more money."
Malene patted Ole a bit and said: "You're a bit of a stick in the mud, Ole. I'll have to teach you how to spend money. I'll bet you've never been on a shopping trip to London, for example."
Ole looked quite startled and said: "No, I certainly haven't! I have no idea why I should either."
Malene laughed and said: "I'll teach you. When we're done with this treasure hunt, we'll take a trip to London. I'm sure you'll love it once you've tried it."
"Well, I doubt it, but you never know. Even an old dog can learn new tricks."


The next morning they did as they had done the other days. They packed their backpacks, went down and had breakfast, drove and picked up sandwiches and drinks, and headed for the mountains.
The road to Garzeno led steeply up into the mountains through an endless series of hairpin turns. The roads were quite narrow and paved with concrete that was cracked and crumbled in many places. These were clearly roads designed for sparse local traffic.
They passed a couple of small villages that looked completely deserted here in the early morning. In most houses the shutters were closed over the windows, and the only sign of life was a couple of places where laundry hung to dry.
After driving for about half an hour, they came to Garzeno, which looked about as deserted as the other villages they had passed on the way. They drove very slowly into the village so as not to overlook the square where they were to look for the house in the mountains. Finally, after driving a long time through a labyrinth of small streets and sharp turns, they came to the church, where in front there was a very small square with a single bar.
Malene, who sat behind the wheel, said: "Wow. That was quite a trip to get up here. It also seems like the road almost ends here. It's just a narrow alley that continues here after the church."
"Yes, if you want to go further up in the mountains, you have to turn off just before the village. Jens and Paul must have been here in the square and then they must have taken the trip back out of the village again to find the road up into the mountains. It must have been nerve-wracking if there was anyone after them."
"Yes, but they were probably used to quite a lot as soldiers. It probably took a lot to scare them."
They now got out of the car and walked around the square a bit, which was not much more than twenty-five meters on each side. The square was very appropriately called Church Square and the small bar was called Center Bar.
There were no people to be seen, but in front of the bar was a blue plastic table with two matching chairs, one of which had a broken back. They sat down and waited for service, but after sitting there for ten minutes, nothing had happened yet.
Ole now went and tried the door to the bar, which opened and revealed a small room with a couple of tables and a small bar counter. Behind the counter sat an older man who had clearly been woken by the door opening.
Malene and Ole managed to order a couple of beers and make the man understand that they wanted to sit outside.
When they had gotten their beer, they began to study the square more closely. The square was almost a triangle, where the church made up one side, the bar another, and a couple of smaller houses the third.
Malene looked at Ole and said: "Now get your compass out. We need to find out where east is."
Ole dived into his backpack and found the compass he had bought before they left. When he held up the compass, it turned out that east pointed directly at the two houses on the square. It was impossible to see the mountains behind except for the very highest peaks.
Ole said hesitantly: "That was a bit of a setback. If we're going to be able to see east, we need to get inside one of the houses, and we can't do that."
Malene took a sip of her beer, smiled, and said: "I think we can. The house there on the right looks like some kind of municipal office. They're surely open all day, and we can just walk in."
"We need to have some kind of pretext. It's not a tourist office, as far as I can see."
"We'll just pretend we can't find the way up into the mountains. They'll certainly be happy to help with that, and while you get the route explained, I'll take lots of pictures of the view to the east."
"OK, let's just try. The worst that can happen is that they throw us out, and we won't be harmed by that."
They now drank up their beer and went over to the municipal office. The door was open, so they walked right in. The ground floor consisted of a lobby with a small counter and doors into two offices at the back of the house.
On the counter stood a small bell, and when Malene rang it, a younger man came out from one of the offices.
The man had immediately spotted that they weren't Italian, and he therefore addressed them in excellent English.
Ole began to tell about their problem finding the way up into the mountains, and the young man, who seemed eager to help, immediately began to explain which way they should drive. He found an old worn map, which he placed on the counter, after which he pointed and gestured.
While Ole and the young man bent over the map, Malene discreetly went into the man's office, where she quickly got out her phone and took lots of pictures all around the horizon.
Ole pretended to be interested in the explanations, but actually the map interested him more. The map showed all the small roads and paths in the mountains and also all the houses that lay scattered around.
As far as Ole could see, the map was very old, and it therefore showed how everything looked close to the time when Jens buried the treasure. The house they were looking for must be marked somewhere on the map, Ole thought.
Ole asked permission to take a couple of pictures of the map so they had something to go by, which the young man smilingly allowed him to do.
When Ole had taken the pictures, Malene came out of the office, and they now thanked him for his help before going back out to the square.


When they sat in the car, Malene said: "I got lots of pictures taken toward the east. If the house still exists, it's guaranteed to be in one of the pictures."
"Good, I took a couple of pictures of the old map we were looking at. I think it's so old that it shows how it looked here when the treasure was buried."
"Well then we can use it to rule out the houses that were built after the war."
"Yes, and it can also show us the houses that may have disappeared over the years." Ole looked very satisfied and continued: "It was damn good that we went into that office. I think it brings us much closer to finding the treasure."
"It probably does, but let's find a place where we can eat our lunch before we drive back to the hotel. I'm getting hungry."
A little later they found a small rest area where they could park the car and sit in the grass to eat their food. As usual there was a breathtaking view over the lake, which lay glittering in the sun here in the middle of the day.
By now they had seen the view so many times that they didn't really notice it anymore. They were more occupied with discussing how they could get the pictures they had taken enlarged so they could study them properly.
Malene said: "We should have thought to bring a laptop or an iPad. That would have been fine for solving the task?"
"Yes, one of the big iPads would be excellent. We can also easily zoom in and out if there's something we need to study more closely."
Malene gathered her rubbish and stood up: "Then we'd better find a shop that sells iPads. We might as well get that done right away."
"OK OK, let's get going, but I'm afraid we'll probably have to go all the way to Como before we find a shop that sells electronics."
"That doesn't matter," Malene opened the car door and sat down in the driver's seat, "it's only about fifty kilometers to Como from here. It's just a quick trip."
They now drove down from the mountains until they reached the coastal road, after which they set course for Como. They passed through many small towns along the coast, but nowhere did they see anything resembling a shop where you could buy electronics.
As they approached Como, Malene said: "Try to google electronics shops, there's guaranteed to be one on the outskirts of Como."
"I've already done that. There's a shopping center on the coastal road a bit further ahead. There's guaranteed to be a shop that sells iPads too, but I've been thinking that we should buy two iPads while we're at it. That way we can compare the map with the pictures directly side by side?"
"That's a really good idea. Then it'll be much easier to see the differences between then and now."
When they reached the shopping center, they quickly found a shop selling Apple products, and shortly afterward they were on their way back to Dongo. Now just two iPads richer.


Back at the hotel room, they quickly got the iPads ready and then loaded all the pictures so they could begin to study them more closely. First they just browsed aimlessly through the pictures to see if there was anything that immediately caught the eye, and when that didn't produce any results, they set up the devices side by side so picture and map showed the same area.
They now went through all of Malene's pictures and along the way were able to remove a couple of houses that weren't on the map and add a couple of houses that weren't in the pictures.
Ole sat thinking for a moment before he said: "As far as I can see, there are three houses that could be considered if Jens had the direction right. Do you agree?"
Malene replied: "Yes, I think so, but I think only two are relevant. The last one is way too far up in the mountains. Jens wouldn't have been able to transport the chest up there alone." Malene pointed at the map so Ole could see what she meant.
"You're right, but then fortunately there are only two houses we need to concentrate on. That only makes it easier."
"Yes, but it will probably still be quite difficult. Neither of the two houses was in my pictures, so they may no longer exist. To find them we'll probably have to search for ruins in dense scrub."
Ole studied the map thoroughly again and then said: "Jens certainly didn't plan to choose a specific house to bury the treasure by. It must have been a random house he came across, and from the house he could then see down to the square in Garzeno to the west. Jens also wrote that the house was on a hilltop, and I think that the lower of the houses we've chosen to look at more closely appears to be in a valley. So it must be the upper house we need to find."
Malene looked closely at the map and then nodded: "I think you're right. It must be the house that's highest up that we need to concentrate on tomorrow. That'll be exciting. I'm really looking forward to getting started for real. Just think if we really manage to find the treasure."
"Yes, damn it. It would be absolutely wild if we succeed, but first we need to find the house. That must be tomorrow's task."


After relaxing for about an hour in the room, they went for a walk along the water while enjoying just strolling in the sun. When they were on their way back toward the hotel again, they came to a small beach bar, and as they passed, they were waved in by Russo, who was sitting alone at one of the tables facing the water.
Russo asked them to share an aperitif with him, and since they had already been considering finding a bar for a drink before dinner, they sat down at the table.
Russo now ordered a Campari for all three of them, and when the drinks were served, they toasted each other. Russo asked them what they had been doing the last few days, and they told him they had taken some lovely hikes in various places in the mountains, which they had actually had completely to themselves. Russo told them that he had just walked around town and relaxed while enjoying the lovely weather.
They now chatted about this and that, and Russo revealed himself as a master of conversation. They touched on all sorts of topics from politics to cars to economics. They also touched on more private matters, and among other things Russo told them that he worked in the fashion industry importing fabrics for the Italian workshops, which still thrived despite the fierce competition from the East.
Malene and Ole told about their work as teachers and the joys and frustrations it brought. In this way, time passed quickly, and before they knew it, they had finished their second drink and had talked for more than an hour.
Malene and Ole now excused themselves and went back to the hotel. Both in high spirits after the drinks they had had and the good company they had been in.


The next morning they drove toward Garzeno again, where on the outskirts of the village they turned off and followed a road that led up into the mountains along the village's periphery.
The houses were built closely together and flanked the road like high walls. The road was quite narrow and in several places almost blocked by cars parked at the roadside.
Malene said: "It's a good thing you're driving the car today. I don't think I'd have had the nerve."
Ole answered tensely: "Well, you can wait until we have to go back down, then you can drive."
Finally they were out of the village and the road, which almost clung to the mountainside, now went steeply upward. The road's concrete surface had in many places turned to gravel, and the railing that was supposed to protect travelers from falling into the abyss looked completely rusted through in several places.
Ole drove very carefully and stayed as close to the mountainside as he could without scratching the car. Fortunately they had the road to themselves, so they were neither challenged by oncoming traffic nor pressed by cars from behind.
Finally they came to a place where the road divided, leading down to a small farm and further up into the mountains. Malene asked Ole to stop the car and got out the map. She said: "That farm looks so old that it's guaranteed to be on the map. If we can find it, we can see if we're getting close to the house."
Malene now traced the road on the map with a finger and quickly found the place where the road divided. The farm they had stopped at was clearly marked on the map, and they could see that they were now quite close to the house they wanted to investigate.
Ole said: "As far as I can see, we just need to go a little further along the road and then we'll be quite close to the house."
"Yes, we need to go through three more turns and then we need to walk into the scrub at right angles to the road. We can look to see if we can spot Garzeno. If we can, we're probably on the right track."
"That sounds like a plan. Let's try it right away."
They now drove on along the mountain road, and when they came to the third turn, they stopped at the roadside where there was a little space they could squeeze the car into.
Ole said: "If there was once a house here, there must also have been a road into it. Shouldn't we start by seeing if we can find traces of it? That would also make it much easier to find the house."
"Good idea. We'll each go in different directions, and if we find something we'll shout. Shall we say we walk for ten minutes and search? If there's a road to the house, I don't think it's farther away than that."
They walked slowly along the roadside while looking for traces that might resemble the beginning of a small road. After walking for ten minutes, neither of them had found anything, and they now turned around to walk back.
When Malene was almost back at the car, her eyes caught two slightly larger stones standing at the roadside like a small portal. When she looked more closely, she could sense a course in the terrain that faintly resembled a trail winding between trees and bushes.
Malene waved Ole over to her, and after they had stood for a while trying to follow the trail, Ole said: "I think you've found the road. It's a very faint trail, but if we walk very slowly, we can probably follow it."
"Then let's try to find the house. This is really exciting."


________________

