25.
Germany 1948


The train moved slowly northward on its way to Hamburg. Only a single-track connection had been established, so they often had to stop at a siding to let oncoming trains pass before they could continue.
At many of the stations along the way, there were long stops while the locomotive was supplied with water and coal. The passengers could use the breaks to get some fresh air and get provisions from the many vendors who flocked to the platforms, where they sold various food and drinks.
Jens, who had gotten a seat in a first-class compartment, mostly stayed in the compartment when the train stopped. He had seen quite enough of destroyed cities and would rather use the time to think about what might happen when he got to Kiel.
Jens felt that he knew Udo well and could trust him, but it was still a bit of a chance he was taking when he used such a large part of his fortune on their joint business. On the other hand, it was he himself who had suggested they go into partnership, so Udo couldn't have had ulterior motives when they agreed to work together.
Several times along the way, police came through the train to check the passengers' papers. Jens had had false papers made that showed his name was Dieter Schmidt and he came from Flensburg. The papers were made so well that they could also withstand the often quite thorough inspection.
Jens had first considered having official papers made at the town hall but then had second thoughts. A really zealous official might start digging for papers that could prove his identity and then question whether he really was who he claimed to be.
At one of the more shady pubs he frequented, he made contact with someone who claimed he could get almost anything, and through him Jens had the papers made that he needed to travel. The same man had also gotten Jens an almost new pistol with ammunition.
Jens had dressed in the clothes he had bought at the market in Munich. He hoped he would get through the checks more easily if he looked like a businessman who had things under control, and so far it had gone smoothly.
After seven hours of travel, the train arrived at Hanover main station early in the evening. It was clear to see that there had previously been large glass-covered arches over the platforms. But everything was completely destroyed, except for a couple of arches that stood almost lonely on the terrain far from each other.
The area around the station had been hard hit by bombs, but a bit further away there were residential blocks that looked reasonably intact. It was clear that here too reconstruction was in full swing. Most building sites had been cleared and in a few places the walls of new houses had begun to rise.
When the train had stopped for a while at the platform, a conductor came through the train and told the passengers that the train would not depart for at least three hours. There were apparently problems getting coal for the locomotive, while at the same time part of the railway line needed to be repaired.


Jens decided to see if he couldn't find a restaurant nearby so he could get something proper to eat. He was getting quite hungry, and they probably wouldn't arrive in Hamburg until the next morning, so a solid evening meal would be good.
When Jens came out to the square in front of the station, he could see a light a few hundred meters away, in a building that looked almost undamaged. When he got there, he could see that the light came from a lantern hanging over a staircase that led down to a restaurant called Maximilian.
Jens could hear voices and laughter from the room and thought that if the atmosphere was good, the food probably was too, so he went down the stairs and opened the door to the room. The noise and heat hit him, but there was also a pleasant smell of food that attracted him strongly, hungry as he was after the long train journey.
As soon as Jens had closed the door behind him, a waiter came and showed him to a table close to a roaring fireplace. Jens immediately ordered a large beer, which he was shortly afterward served along with the daily special, which was a large portion of sausages, potatoes, and sauerkraut.
The beer was good and cold and the food tasted good, so Jens quickly felt very comfortable. It was almost as if he was at a big party where everyone knew everyone, and he quickly got into conversation with a group of younger men sitting at the next table. They chatted about this and that, and since Jens had plenty of time, he ordered another beer so he could enjoy the good company a bit longer.
Everyone around the table had participated in the war, so the conversation quickly turned to exchanging memories from the various battlefields where they had participated.
Jens didn't want to have to defend what the SS had done during the war, so he deftly avoided telling anything concrete about his past and only told about a couple of the countries where he had been stationed without mentioning battles or other events that could connect him to the organization.
Although the atmosphere around the table was good, Jens noticed that a couple of the men occasionally whispered together and looked at him with hostility. Jens thought they might be a bit jealous of him, sitting there in his nice clothes and appearing to have lots of money.
When Jens had drunk the next beer, he excused himself and headed for the exit to find his way back to the station. Outside it had now become almost completely dark, and the street was only dimly lit by the lamp over the entrance to the restaurant.
When Jens had walked a short distance, he was struck by a powerful blow to the back of his neck, so he staggered forward until he bumped into a stack of bricks that held him up.
When Jens managed to turn around, he saw that the two young men from the restaurant had followed him and were now clearly out to rob him of whatever valuables he had.
One of the young men jumped forward toward him and aimed a blow at his jaw, but even though Jens was slightly dazed, he managed to duck so the blow went over his head.
Suddenly Jens was back in the trenches around Stalingrad, where close combat was a matter of life or death. He became ice cold inside and was now only focused on killing to survive.
When the young man attacked again, Jens struck him with all his might in the middle of his face, so his nose broke and teeth rattled out of his mouth. The man moaned, clutched his face, and bent forward, after which Jens hammered a knee up under his chin. Before the man could fall, Jens took a brick from the pile and with all the strength he had in him struck it into the side of the man's head. He now fell unconscious to the ground, clearly unable to continue fighting.
Jens could now concentrate on the other opponent, who stood a few meters away and looked like he most wanted to run away.
Jens picked up a brick, and when he moved forward toward the young man, he quickly turned around and disappeared in the direction of the restaurant.
Jens was afraid reinforcements would soon come, so he hurried toward the station, where he hoped to be able to hide in the train if a group suddenly came after him.
Although Jens had a pistol in his inner pocket, he was reluctant to use it, as a shot would quickly summon police and create an attention he didn't need right now. He would only use the pistol as a very last resort.


When Jens got down to the platform, a conductor who was unlocking the doors to the train told him that departure was in less than half an hour.
Jens now got on the train and found his seat by the window in the compartment, where he could keep an eye on what was happening on the platform. Gradually his heart stopped galloping away, and he calmed down enough to begin to believe that he would be able to continue his journey in peace.
He regretted that he had been so naive as to walk alone into an establishment in the fine clothes he was wearing. The clothes did help him get through the train journey easily, but they could easily seem tempting to the many poor unemployed young men that Germany was so full of right now. They couldn't believe anything other than that he was a rich man with pockets full of money. Jens decided that for the rest of the journey he would stay on the train so he wouldn't risk having to defend himself again.
As they approached the time of departure, the platform, which had been swarming with people, became almost deserted. The only ones still outside the train were a couple of porters who had sat down on a bench while waiting for the next train.
As the train began to move, Jens saw three men come running and jump into the last car. Jens recognized a couple of them from the restaurant, and he had no doubt that it was him they were looking for.
The train was packed with people both in the compartments and in the corridors, so it would take some time before the pursuers reached Jens's compartment. However, he had no intention of just waiting to be caught. If they got hold of him, it would certainly cost him all his valuables and perhaps even his life.
To buy as much time as possible, Jens took his suitcase from the luggage rack and began to walk toward the front of the train. He only moved slowly because of the crowding, but consoled himself that the pursuers would have the same problems making their way, and they would also need time to study the passengers in the compartments carefully to spot him.
Finally Jens reached the end of the last car, which was separated from the locomotive by a baggage car. The door into the baggage car was locked, so Jens couldn't go any further. He was now trapped like a mouse in a trap and could only hope that the pursuers wouldn't find him before he got a chance to jump off at the next station where the train stopped.
Jens wouldn't be able to use the pistol to shoot his way free. He would far too easily hit innocent people in the packed train, but he might be able to use it to threaten the pursuers to keep their distance. How he would then manage once he had jumped off the train, he couldn't quite figure out. Police would certainly quickly be called to catch a man who was threatening passengers on the train with a pistol.


Jens suddenly felt a hard push in his back as the door to the baggage car opened. One of the conductors edged his way out of the door and began to make his way through the packed corridor.
The door was designed to snap shut on its own, but Jens was quick and put a foot in the door. When the conductor was out of sight, Jens jumped into the baggage car and slammed the door behind him.
He wasn't safe now, but the pursuers wouldn't be able to get to him without getting hold of a conductor whom they would then have to persuade to unlock the door.
Jens now walked forward in the car to see if there was a good hiding place where he could conceal himself. The car was filled with shelves from floor to ceiling on both sides with a narrow aisle in the middle. In the middle of the car there were wide sliding doors on both sides for loading and unloading baggage.
All the shelves were packed with baggage and there was nowhere he could squeeze in. There was nothing else to do but make some space on one of the shelves.
Fortunately the side doors weren't locked, so Jens opened one and then began to throw baggage out from the shelf he had selected. Now he just had to hope that none of the passengers spotted the flying baggage.
When he had thrown out enough baggage, he closed the door and crawled onto the shelf. He stacked the remaining baggage in front of him so he was invisible to those walking in the aisle.

When Jens had been lying there for a while, the door from inside the train opened, and he could now hear several people entering the baggage car.
A voice that clearly belonged to the conductor said: "Hurry up and look, so we can get this over with. I can already see there's no one here."
A voice replied: "Let us look properly. We need to be completely sure he's not on the train."
"What has he actually done to you that you're so eager to find him?"
"He attacked one of our friends, who has lost all his front teeth and has gotten a long deep gash in his head."
"That sounds damn strange that he would do something like that when you say he was well-dressed and looked like a businessman. Are you sure your friend didn't invite the beating he got?"
A voice answered angrily: "It might sound strange, but that's how it was. He attacked our friend for no reason."
"OK OK, if you say so it must be true, but hurry up and finish, I have a lot more to do than run around the baggage car looking for ghosts."
Jens could hear them searching in all corners and crevices, but fairly quickly his pursuers lost heart when they could see there was no way to hide anywhere in the baggage car, packed with baggage as it was. When they came to the shelf where Jens lay, they just walked right past without investigating more closely whether something was hiding behind the wall of baggage he had stacked up in front of him.
The conductor said: "Well, are you almost done? You can see there's no one hiding in here. I think you've been sent on a wild goose chase. You haven't even seen him board the train. Come out of here now. I damn well don't want to spend more time on this story."
Shortly afterward Jens could hear the door slam, and he was alone again.
Right now he was safe, but at some point before they got to the next station, the conductors would start finding the baggage that was to be unloaded at the next stop. If he was unlucky, they would empty his shelf, and he would be discovered. He didn't dare take that chance. If he was going to get out of the trap he was in, he needed to get off the train somehow quickly.
Fortunately the train occasionally ran very slowly, so there should be an opportunity to jump off without getting hurt.
Jens crawled out from the shelf and went and opened one of the side doors. When he was to jump off, the train had to be going slowly, but there also had to be some brush or a ditch where he could quickly hide. Otherwise too many people would be able to see him in the light from the compartments, and the pursuers might be able to stop the train and come after him.
Jens stood in the doorway for what felt like an eternity. He could faintly see the contours of the landscape in the light from the moon and stars, but either the train was going too fast when there was a place to hide, or it was bare fields the railway ran through when the speed was low enough.
Finally they approached a small grove that bordered the track, and when the train slowed down, Jens jumped with the suitcase in his arms from the baggage car. He hit the ground in some soft grass and quickly threw himself in among the trees, where he threw himself down out of sight of the passengers on the train.
Jens lay waiting for the sound of screeching brakes, but when after a couple of minutes it was completely quiet, he got up and walked up onto the railway track. If he followed it, he would at some point find a place where he could get help to continue north. The track had to at some point cross a larger road or run through a town.


It was now late in the evening, and Jens was getting tired. It had been a long and exhausting day that hadn't gone at all as he had hoped before he set off. He had expected to sit in a warm compartment in peace and quiet while the train traveled toward Hamburg. Now he was walking off into the night along a railway track without knowing where he would sleep or how he would continue north.
After Jens had walked and brooded a bit over his misfortune, he began to think about the bright sides of the situation. Fortunately he hadn't lost any of his possessions, so in that way no major damage had been done. He would of course be delayed before he got to Kiel, but Udo didn't know exactly when he had planned to arrive, so that wasn't a major problem either. If he just made sure to stay out of trouble for the rest of the trip, everything should work out anyway.
As long as Jens was walking, he didn't freeze, but he didn't dare lie down to sleep outside. There could still be frost at night, and he was afraid of freezing to death.
He had to find shelter for the night while he wasn't too tired to walk, and he therefore scanned the landscape he was walking through to find something that could serve as shelter for the night.
Fortunately there were no clouds in the sky, and the moon and stars gave enough light for him to orient himself. After walking for about an hour, he spotted what looked like an old dilapidated barn that stood at the edge of a wood close to the railway. Jens approached cautiously while listening for sounds from inside the building. He didn't want to risk surprising someone hiding for the night in the old barn.
When he got right up to the barn, he put his ear to the gate but couldn't hear any sounds from inside. Carefully he took hold of the handle and when he put his shoulder to it, the gate opened with a loud creak. If there was anyone hiding inside the building, they were warned now at least.
When Jens's eyes had adjusted to the darkness, he could make out the interior of the barn, which turned out to be a large bare room containing nothing but old junk thrown in the corners.
The barn was clearly no longer in use, but when Jens had searched a bit along the wall, he found a pile of straw that smelled fresh, and there he lay down exhausted to sleep while packing the straw around himself to keep warm.


The next morning Jens woke very early, and even before it began to get light, he was on his way along the tracks. It was clear that spring was really on its way now. When the sun came up, it warmed his back so he had to take off his coat. Lapwings and larks tumbled over the fields while birdsong rose and fell. Trains came only rarely, so he could walk almost undisturbed on the track.
After walking for quite a while, he came to a smaller town that was waking in the morning light. Jens walked down the main street where he came to a small hotel that appeared to be open.
He now went in and sat down in the restaurant. No one paid much attention to him, as his appearance despite the turbulent evening and night was reasonably neat. He could still pass for a traveling businessman with business in town.
Jens got a solid breakfast which he had to restrain himself from wolfing down. He couldn't remember when he had last been so hungry. The events of the day before had apparently affected him more than he thought.
When Jens was done with the food, he asked the waitress when the next train left and was told that the only train that stopped in town departed in an hour, so he had plenty of time to find his way to the station.
While Jens drank the last of his coffee, he sat down to study a newspaper that had been left on one of the tables. On the front page there was a small notice that said:


"The express train between Munich and Hamburg was subjected to vandalism last night when a younger man threw out some baggage before jumping off the train himself. The incident occurred between Eschede and Unterlüss. The young man is already wanted for a serious assault that he committed earlier in the evening. The victim of the assault is in the hospital in critical condition.
The young man is described as mid-twenties, slim and well-dressed in a suit, coat, and hat. He is about 1.8 meters tall and has blue eyes and reddish-brown hair.
Information should be given to the nearest police."


Jens immediately realized that he couldn't take the train any further. All the conductors had of course been drilled on the description of him, and he would quickly be discovered and arrested.
But if he couldn't take the train, how was he supposed to continue? He couldn't keep walking along the track. Firstly, it would attract attention in daylight, and secondly, it was far too long a trip to walk.
After Jens had sat for a while pondering, he came to the conclusion that the only thing he could do in the situation was to get himself a car or a motorcycle. That way he could get north without being exposed to curious looks, and if he set course northwest toward Bremen, he would quickly get away from the area where he was wanted.
On his way through town, he had noticed a building in a side street that could be an auto repair shop, so instead of heading for the station, he walked back out of town until he came to the right road. If the mechanic didn't have anything for sale himself, he might know if others had a vehicle for sale.
The workshop was on a small square where a gas pump stood, and was really just an enlarged shed with a gate that filled the entire width of the building. Jens could hear loud banging sounds from inside the shed, so he went and opened a door on the side of the building.
The workshop was dimly lit, only illuminated by a weak bulb in the ceiling and the daylight coming in through the dirty windows. When Jens had gotten used to the dim light, he spotted a pair of legs sticking out from under a car that was jacked up on a couple of jacks.
Jens cleared his throat a couple of times, and finally an older man emerged from under the car.
When the man had gotten up, Jens apologized for the disturbance and then said:
"I want to ask if you have a vehicle for sale or know if there are others nearby who have something they want to get rid of."
The man didn't answer right away. First he got out a pipe, which he scraped, filled, and lit. When he had puffed on the pipe a bit, he said: "You get right to the point, I must say. I actually like that, but it clearly shows you're not from around here. Where are you actually from?"
Jens first thought of saying he came from Dresden to cover his trail but then stuck with his story. True, the story was a lie, but he had by now retold it to himself so many times that it almost felt like the truth. Jens said: "I come from Flensburg. Way up by the Danish border."
"And now you want something to drive home in?"
"Yes, that was the idea. I'm tired of traveling by train, and with a car I can also more easily get out to my customers."
"Are you a traveling salesman?"
"Yes, I am. We sell luxury goods like coffee, tea, and chocolate."
"There can't be much business in that, as poor as everyone is."
"No, it's difficult, but there are still quite a few people who have money to buy luxury."
"Yes, in this town you won't sell anything. We're poor as church mice, all of us."
"I was actually on my way further when I saw your workshop and wanted to ask if you can get a vehicle. I've asked around where I've been in to do business, but I haven't found anything yet."
The man puffed slowly on his pipe while apparently thinking carefully. Finally he said: "I actually have a car you might be interested in. Come with me and we'll look at it."
The man now turned around and Jens followed him to the back of the building, where a door led out to a small back garden. When Jens came out into the daylight again, he could see that a lean-to had been attached to the back of the workshop. Under the roof stood a small car, which Jens immediately recognized as an Opel P4.
It would be a perfect car in his situation. Large enough that he could drive comfortably, but not so big that it attracted attention. If the car was in good condition, he could be in Kiel that very day, and they could surely use a car in the company going forward.
Jens didn't want to show how excited he was, so he walked around a bit while looking skeptically at the car. After walking around the car a couple of times, Jens said: "Yes, it's a nice car, but it's not from yesterday, and there doesn't seem to be much of an engine in it."
"No, it's not new, but it's well-maintained, and it hasn't done very many kilometers."
"Could you try to start it?"
The man went into the workshop and came out a little later with a key in his hand: "You can try to start it yourself. You just need to give it a bit of choke and it'll start the first time."
Jens now sat down in the driver's seat, pulled out the choke, and turned the key. The car started on the first try, and Jens had to stop himself from smiling broadly. Jens was now ready to deal but of course wanted to try to get the car as cheaply as possible, so he would try to haggle a bit.
Jens reached out his hand and said: "I'm ready to deal if you give me a good price."
The man thought for a moment and then named a price, which Jens then bid a good bit under, after which the man named a slightly lower price and Jens a slightly higher one. In this way they approached each other, and finally they agreed on a price they could both be satisfied with.
The man puffed on his pipe a bit and then said: "Thanks for the deal. You got a good car at a good price. I'll just go in and make a receipt for you. You can drive the car around front and load your suitcase on board in the meantime."
Jens got into the car and carefully drove it around to the forecourt in front of the workshop. There was no trunk in the car, so he threw the suitcase onto the back seat.
Shortly afterward the man came out with a receipt, and Jens paid the agreed amount. Jens now asked to have the car filled up with gasoline, and when that was done, he was ready to drive.


Jens now got into the car and quickly found his way onto the motorway heading north.
He was tempted to drive directly to Hamburg but decided to stick with the plan and turned off toward Bremen as soon as possible.
The motorways were gradually being reasonably repaired, and since traffic was sparse, Jens quickly got some distance from the railway. After driving for a couple of hours, he began to breathe easier and now gradually felt sure he wouldn't be discovered.


________________

