28.
Italy/Denmark 2019




Ole followed the car with Malene and the street sweeper while all sorts of thoughts and feelings rushed around in his head. At the same time as he was about to panic with fear of what would happen to them, he tried to find a way to get out of the impossible situation they had ended up in.
He considered driving into the car in front, perhaps being able to escape in the confusion, but that was probably only something that could work in movies. He did have a pistol pressed into his side, and it would probably go off with violent movements.
While he tried to fight his fear and panic, he realized there was no way to escape as long as they were in the cars. He had to hope that something would turn up when they arrived at wherever it was they were going.
When they were almost down at the lakeside again, the street sweeper turned onto a small gravel road that wound through forest and scrub until, after about a kilometer of driving, they reached a small house that lay discreetly completely hidden from prying eyes.
Both cars stopped in the yard, and Malene and Ole were now ordered into the house, which on the ground floor consisted of one large room with a big table with chairs around it.
When they came inside, they were met by a smiling Russo, who immediately walked toward them while saying: "Welcome, dear friends. Please take a seat at the table so we can have a little talk about what's going to happen now."
Malene and Ole looked at each other. Both were shocked that the smiling and elegant man they had come to know was now suddenly an enemy who meant them harm.
Russo said something in Italian, and shortly afterward the street sweeper came in with the treasure, which he placed in the middle of the table. Russo said: "Thank you so much for finding the treasure for us. We've been looking for it for many years. Now you just need to help us get the chest opened, and then you'll be allowed to go."
Russo went to the chest and laid his hand on it before saying: "We're aware that the chest is booby-trapped and can only be opened by turning two keys simultaneously. We also know that you have the keys, so tell me now, where are they?"
Ole cleared his throat and said in a weak voice: "How can we be sure you won't kill us as soon as we've helped you?"
"You can't be sure of that, but if you don't help us, I'll start by shooting your girlfriend in the knee. Then she'll be disabled for life. After that I'll shoot her in the other knee, then in both elbows, and finally she'll get a bullet in the forehead."
Russo took a pistol from his jacket pocket, chambered a round, and pressed it against Malene's knee. Ole had no doubt that Russo would do exactly as he said, so he shouted breathlessly: "OK OK, we'll help. The keys are attached under the passenger seat, but I can quickly find them for you."
Russo now put his pistol back in his pocket while issuing another command. The waiter now grabbed Ole's arm, pulled him up from the chair, and pushed him toward the door.
Before Ole had taken two steps, there was a bang, and when he turned around, he saw that Russo was lying on the floor with a surprised expression on his face. In the middle of his forehead was a hole the size of a quarter, from which a little blood was seeping.
Malene screamed in terror and helplessness, and when Ole tried to go to comfort her, he was brutally pulled back and once again had a pistol pressed into his side.
The waiter said: "Exactly the same conditions apply as before, but now it's just the two of us you're helping and not Russo. The fool thought we would let him take the treasure and use all the valuables on a long-lost cause. How stupid can you be? Now you're coming with me outside to get the keys while my friend has a little fun with your girlfriend."
Ole was about to protest but had the pistol pushed even harder into his side, so the only thing he could do was walk out of the house and over to the Porsche.
On the way to the car, Ole thought desperately about how he could save them from the situation they had ended up in. But no ideas came, so he just staggered along obediently in the faint hope that they might be allowed to live once they had handed over the keys.
When they reached the car, Ole opened the door on the passenger side, got down on his knees, and began to rummage under the seat. The first thing he felt was the pistol - he had completely forgotten about it. Here was perhaps their only chance of rescue, if he could get it free without the waiter suspecting what he was doing.
Ole put all his strength into it and managed to tear the pistol and the keys free in almost one movement. The waiter, who couldn't see the pistol since it was hidden by Ole's body, said impatiently: "Come on with the keys, I could hear you got them free. No tricks now. Remember I have a pistol pointed at your head."
"I just need to get them completely free," said Ole, faking a sneeze that covered the sound of the safety as he clicked it off.
Ole now turned halfway around and handed the waiter the keys with his left hand. When the waiter, in sheer excitement at finally being able to get the treasure, momentarily removed his pistol from Ole's head, Ole turned completely around and shot the waiter in the middle of his chest.
The waiter staggered backward while trying to raise his pistol so he could hit Ole, but after a couple of seconds he collapsed and lay dead in the gravel.
Ole, who was now suddenly ice cold and focused, walked quickly toward the house, where a terrible sight met him when he opened the door. Malene, who still had her hands tied behind her back, was stripped naked below the waist and thrown over the table. The street sweeper stood behind her with his erect member in his hand and was in the process of penetrating her. Malene was whimpering quietly, clearly crushed by all the terrible things she had experienced in the last hour.
While the street sweeper said something cheerful in Italian, Ole walked without hesitation up behind him, put the pistol against his head, and pulled the trigger. Again the room echoed with a shot, and the street sweeper collapsed and was dead on the spot.


Ole now freed Malene's hands, and she immediately threw her arms around his neck. They stood holding each other for a long time while they both found comfort and relief in the close contact with the other's body.
Finally they let go, and Ole now grabbed the chest, which he put in the trunk at the front of the Porsche. Then he found a towel, which he used to wipe off all the surfaces that he and Malene might have touched. Ole didn't want to leave any traces of them in the cabin. Three bodies would inevitably lead to a major police investigation, and since they had been around the area, they could easily be drawn into it. If nothing else, then as possible witnesses.
Ole took the keys from the waiter's hand, started the car, and rolled back down the forest road. He felt as if they had been in the small house for many hours, but actually it was all over in under half an hour.
In under half an hour he had managed to kill two people - a thought that seemed completely absurd to him. Killing people was something soldiers did, not a peaceful high school teacher. Nevertheless, he had done it, and he would do it again if circumstances required it.
Everything that had happened churned around in his head, but at the same time he felt clear and capable of action. It must be adrenaline pumping through his body in large quantities.
When they reached the hotel, Ole said: "Stay here in the car and relax, I'll go into the hotel and get our things and check out."
Malene said: "How will you explain that we're suddenly leaving? That looks strange."
"I'll just say something about illness in the family, so we have to drive home immediately."
"OK, yes, I suppose they'll have to believe that."
"I don't care if they believe it. We just need to get away from here now."
"Hurry back, I don't like being alone."
"I'll hurry as fast as I can."
Ole now hurried into the hotel and came back out shortly afterward at a half-run, threw the luggage into the back seat, started the car, and drove south out of town.
After they had driven for a while, Ole said: "We're driving a different way home than the one we took down here. We're driving via Milan and Lake Garda and from there north through Austria and home."
Malene looked at him in surprise and said: "Why's that? Isn't that a longer trip?"
"Yes, but I'm just trying to avoid running into more problems. When we drove down from the mountain, I was sitting wondering how easily they could find us, so I thought they must have attached something to the car so they could follow where it was. When I was in the hotel just before, I broke into Russo's room and there I found a GPS tracker that showed exactly where the car was parked."
"But then they've been able to follow everything we've been doing."
"Exactly. I took it with me, of course, but I still think we might risk having someone after us, so just to be careful, we're taking a different route home."
A little later Malene sighed and said: "I... I thought you were dead." Malene wiped her eyes and continued: "When the shot went off, when you were out getting the keys, the street sweeper laughed and said you were done for. I was completely sure it was true."
"But fortunately it wasn't." Ole took Malene's hand and caressed it for a long time until she calmed down.
They now drove through the late afternoon, evening, and night, stopping only when necessary to refuel or get something to eat and use the restroom. Ole drove the whole way while Malene slept much of the way in the passenger seat. Finally, early in the morning when they were a good way up through Germany, they pulled into a rest area where Ole got a couple of hours of sleep before they continued toward the Danish border.
As they approached Hamburg, Malene said: "We were also supposed to see if we could find a summer house we can stay in."
"Yes, that's right... it's about time. Can you see if you can find one and get it booked for the next two weeks?"
Malene now sat for a while searching on her phone before saying: "The selection isn't great here in the middle of summer vacation, it's probably mostly cancellations that are left."
"Just find one that's located a bit discreetly, if possible."
Malene now searched further and finally found a house that was completely by itself deep in the forests around Silkeborg. "It probably doesn't get more discreet than that," she said.
"Then hurry up and book it."


As they approached the border, Ole said: "I think it's wise if we cross the border at one of the small border crossings. If anyone's trying to find us, they're guaranteed to be at Kruså or Padborg."
They crossed the border at Rudbøl, and after another couple of hours of driving, they were at the house in the forest.
The house was large and situated beautifully right down to a small lake. The property was huge, and there were no neighbors to be seen. They quickly carried luggage and supplies into the house and were now ready for what the whole adventure had been about - opening Mussolini's chest and seeing the diamonds that had now been hidden for so many years.
They both went out to the car and helped each other carry the chest into the house, where they placed it on the floor in the middle of the living room.
Ole now took the keys out of his pocket, put one in each lock, and turned them. There was a soft click and the lid slid open. They both stood almost paralyzed, staring at the many jewels that sparkled and glittered in the rays of the evening sun.
Malene picked up a handful of jewels, admired them for a bit, and then let them fall back into the chest. She said: "How beautiful they are. Most of them are huge. These are the kind of diamonds you see when royalty and movie stars show off. But what do we do with all this? The Italians who have been chasing us definitely know where we live, so we can't go home."
"No, and I'm sure they'll pursue us as long as we have the treasure."
Malene looked at Ole with alarm and said: "I damn well don't want to be on the run from them for the rest of my life."
"No, and that's why we need to get rid of the treasure as soon as possible."
"How's that? We can't just throw it away again."
"No, of course not. I've been thinking that we'll now take three handfuls of jewels. One for each of us and one for Paul's family. The rest we'll pack up and send to a police station, where we'll include a letter saying that the treasure was found in Italy and previously belonged to Mussolini. Once we've handed over the treasure, there's no reason to chase us anymore."
"Then Paul's family won't get half the valuables, as Jens had promised."
"No, but there's nothing to be done about that. We need to hand over a big treasure so it makes headlines around the world. Otherwise I think the Italians will keep chasing us."
Malene stood thinking for a moment before saying: "Well, Paul's family is still getting a big fortune they didn't expect. Fortunately, they don't know what they're missing out on."
A little later she said: "There are guaranteed to be many who will claim the treasure."
"There certainly will be, but that's not our problem then. Some officials will have to decide what happens to the valuables."
"That sounds like a good plan," said Malene and once again picked up a handful of jewels. "We've certainly earned getting something out of it."
"Definitely. We've certainly worked hard for it, you could say."


A couple of days later, a package was delivered to the police station in Aarhus. When the duty officer opened the package, on top lay a letter that said:


"This package contains a very large value in diamonds. We found them in Italy, and they originally belonged to Mussolini. We have chosen not to keep the stones and hope that the Danish state will ensure that the valuables are distributed to the rightful owners."


That same afternoon, the internet was overflowing with the news about the many diamonds that had simply been handed in. The speculations about who had found the treasure and why they had just given it away were many and imaginative.
That very same day, claims of ownership of the treasure were sent from several families and individuals in Italy, just as the Italian state demanded the treasure be handed over from Denmark.


________________

